I’m getting old and I found a psychiatrist who treats schizophrenia in elderly patients. I really want to start seeing her. I’m thinking about trying to schedule an appointment with her before New Years to see if I like her or not.

I don’t ever see anyone. I haven’t since I was hospitalized in 2021. This is not a life. I’m dark and limited, bare. Friendship always came easily to me, so I never had to work at it. I haven’t made the effort to make friends. I’m so weak physically I have trouble walking to the grocery store. I don’t know why this is, maybe it’s natural for someone always in his room. I’m a sad sort. I should read more. Isn’t that what the chronically lonely do? AA never was much help. I don’t speak the language of recovery. The mentally ill center where people socialize is my best bet but I may be too mad to make such a long trip on the bus system.

It’s supposed to be a good support group but as these things go it is strong in some areas and weak in others and it is weak here with a group of three people who don’t let anyone else enter out of ignorance. I read the book on how to make a meeting and stories of sz’s and the six steps or is it five? They changed the name to Schizophrenia Alliance recently. A group is a good idea. There is a NAMI group here that has the same curse: a small group of guys that always meet and push( unintentionally )away newcomers. I should start a group in a church near me. I’ve never really done much heroic and my dignity is absent for a leader. Seems you lose dignity when you lose patience.

Have you ever had horrific thoughts? really reprehensible and dark? the kind that happens almost against your will?

Voices are getting bad and loud, sometimes i cant concentrate on someone’s who’s speaking to me because all i can hear is the noise from the voices.

What can I do? Get myself locked up on purpose? They’d release me a week later. My symptoms get worse in there too and I haven’t a minute of privacy. You’d be impressed by my functionality: I take care of myself and get no help. But it is scary. It’s windy and wild. My mind is out of control. I can’t go for a long walk today, a 20 minute walk will do, I’m going to buy Lucky Charms. Cleaning my kitchen helps me be sane. Usually I cook but I’m low on money and will be eating cereal.

I have been severely otherworldly depressed for the past few days. My body has been in a lot of pain. My joints ached, my muscles felt tired, my head hurt, every sensory input I was subjected to was too loud/sharp. I had no energy, was not able to talk loud enough to be heard, absolutely no appetite. All i wanted to do was lie still and hope the grim reaper would come for me. It got so bad, I was starting to organise a trip back to Denmark to go inpatient.

But today. My mood is lifted. No depression. Still in pain, but it’s not so all consuming and insurmountable anymore. Lots more energy I am talking a lot, making silly jokes and gestures and laughing like an idiot over how funny I am. And the sudden shift makes me wonder. Could I be going manic? Is it even possible right after a depressive spell?

Recently I’ve been hearing a buzzing, like a phone on silent buzzing. But there’s nothing on my phone. Been happening on and off for a few days. Anyone else get something like this? Normally I have internal voices, but this seems weird to me.

Lately I’ve been feeling a bit off. Sensitive to sound, light, my surroundings. Feeling uneasy. Does this seem like psychosis coming back? I’m worried. I keep changing the TV volume. It’s too loud but that makes me feel uneasy, so I lower it and feel uneasy, and then raise it again. Also feeling cold but then feel too hot.

At the onset of my illness I started having bad thoughts and I got totally upset by them, a disturbing anxiety I’ll never forget. Am I responsible for my thoughts? How do I control them? Are they “me”? My personal experience has been using the will to control my mind and substitution of good thoughts for bad thoughts and not believing my thoughts will result in actions.

yesterday i had nothing to do and i spent the whole day thinking about the reality of my situation and my problems i live with now. is this part of sz – i mean thinking like this for a whole day? it was rough on me this thinking process. i didn’t even enjoy it. it felt like a workload or something.

I hung up the phone on my mom today. I went full blown psychotic for a moment and I didn’t want to yell at her. She is 84 years old and I really have to watch my step. I’ve told her for the last time I put the blame on her. It’s all been said. When I hung up on her I had a vacant mind. I know people at my clinic who aren’t present mentally, you can’t talk to them. When it happens to me rage rises in me. I don’t know what it is about moms though, they can cause people to act out. I have taken responsibility for my actions. Heaven knows I remember the moment I made the decisions. But then I remember a lot of things. Things of no consequence. I’m headed to the library. My mom gave me a reading suggestion. Charles Dickens.

So my girlfriend has gone to spend time with her family for a couple weeks. They live a few hours drive away so i cant just pop over to see her much. Its made me realise that without her im super lonely. Its only been a couple days and i am at a loss for what to do with myself. I have work a few days a week and maybe an appointment or two every week or so but its not enough. It can be difficult for me to be entertained by movies or gaming or whatever other solo home activity. Basically i get nothing out of them these days. I would be just as entertained if i was to stare at a wall instead. So ive come to the conclusion i need friends. Its difficult though because its hard enough for anyone to make new mates as an adult even without any mental health issues. And i have sza and pretty bad social anxiety too. Its getting me a bit down. What is a fella to do?

Maybe this will pass. I am unable to read or understand any of the weekend entertainment radio shows. I’ve done both of those things before quite well. It reminds me of a David Bowie song QUICKSAND: I’m sinking in the quicksand of my thought/And I ain’t got the power anymore… Don’t believe in yourself, don’t deceive with belief, knowledge comes from death’s release. I admitted the other day to someone I don’t make sense. I wonder if that has something to do with it. It’s come to light. Maybe I should have kept it secret. Somewhere somebody has found me out. I’ll keep you informed if it returns but I no longer care about books. I give up: they don’t have what I’m looking for. I’ll try and play my mandolin. And I need a walk today. The pharmacy is holding a script for me.

I feel like people on Facebook are trying to tell me I’m a serial killer when I’m not. It’s really upsetting and scaring me

I heard a voice that sounded like me deep inside say one day, “I suffer from blank screen mind”. Then some months later I bought this book by a guy named Rupert Spiro and he said we are a screen and our lives are projected onto it. I haven’t tried reading the book again because I’ve read dozens of self help books and none of them really helped. Maybe this is the one for me.

When I go to the library I see students quietly working on their laptops. They are so occupied they never look at anything but their screens. Do you know what they are doing? I am curious. It looks interesting. The home computer didn’t become popular until my late 20’s. My dad had one and spent day and night on it, he said he was tweeking, that he was a tweek geek.

Hi all. The last 2 to 3 weeks I haven’t really been myself. One week ago…at work I had a very dizzy spell…i dont know what caused it. But something tells me it was work related anxiety that got the better of me. I took the next 2 days off sick. I dont feel 100% better… My doc says to go back to see him if my mood gets worse. . But its not my mood I’m worried about. Its my change in mind state. My mind feels “weaker” now. Before I had clarity, but my thoughts seem crowded now if that makes sense. I probably am due a meds review. My psychiatric discharged me more than 5 years ago…im reluctant to see them in case i need to be hospitalised.

I am using a work VPN at home on a separate laptop. But I wasn’t sure if I shared an internet connection with a computer holding official connection, whether they can see me on this forum etc. Not too bothered about people knowing what I look up online, but as this is a sensitive job, not sure whether it would be the right thing to do in order to protect myself when I come on here to discuss health related matters?. Do you use a VPN?

I am expected at my new job to learn some new IT languages. Basically, I have really low level skill currently in this area (I can code in Excel using VBA) Not sure if I will be able to learn these things well enough in 6 months probation. My worry is my brain has taken a real hammering recently, and I am just not up to it. What do you think? Is 35 too late to learn? Am I just being paranoid, or is this a normal fear to have?

I’ve noticed that when I have a job that keeps me busy and mentally engaged that I have a resounding better mental health. This wasn’t true for my first job, as they was a lot of time I got to think and not say anything, and that was when symptoms would appear most often. Thats why I have to stay mentally engaged as was the case with my seasonal summer job. And being jobless as not helped me one bit, but I am changing that.

I’ve spent the last 2 weeks jumping through all the hoops but I aced everything and was officially hired yesterday. I had two interviews, several questionnaires, a client role-play conversation so they could see how I conduct myself, two technology tests, and a criminal and social media background check. I made one mistake on one of the tests, but hey, no one is perfect! I don’t want to say the name of the company but they are in numerous countries on every continent (except Antarctica). I’m starting off part time but the potential to make a sh*t ton of money if I go full time is very exciting. Even part time the money is really good, much better than my current delivery driver job. For the time being I am going to work both jobs part time and see which one I like better. Then I’ll make a decision on which one I want to stick with. Although with a looming recession it may be a good idea to hold on to both jobs, if I loose one I’ll have a backup. I’ll be responsible for providing tech support to residential and small/medium businesses in my town and the town next to me.