So recently, my psychiatrist discovered that what I've suffered since I'm 11yo is not a depression but a bipolarity type 2. When I've learnt it, I called all my life into question, a real shock. Today, i'm SO tired of my constant mood swing, my depressive episodes are hell, I just can't anymore. My relationships suffer from it, they don't understand but I don't recognize myself any more too. I'm on antidepressants and anxiolytic but I may change my treatment. I just want to live peacefully, I cant i can't im going CRAZY im going MAD i wanna destroy anything everything i cant keep going anymore im so tired

I'm 6 months episode free. I'm on Lithium and an SSRI called Venlafaxin. I should be happy as my mood is stable but this wet blanket of fatigue has been placed on me. The things I yearned for while depressed, like going out with my friends is now impossible as I'm drained of energy from leaving the house for a few hours. Have you guys experienced something like this? Is it medication-related? I'm seriously thinking of quitting my meds (a recipe for disaster I know) because I can't stand this

I know I have bipolar, but is a there a word for something like this? I can experience anger, depression and fear all at once. It's like I'll go from being normal to being angry to being sad, to being scared and back to angry within a 1 hour period. Yeah, my meds might not be helping me completely.

I'm taking Depakote 250mg in a morning and 500mg at night. At first I noticed no side effects, but now after a month of the drug I feel so lazy! Tired constantly, no motivation, can't move, can't go out. I've had a depression phase and a hypomanic phase but I'm still lethargic and pretty much exausted upon wakening to going to sleep. Has anyone else tried this drug? Does anyone feel so bloody tired all the time!? I'm considering asking my doctor to change, but as I have no other side effects I'm hoping the tiredness will pass and I should just stick with it to see. Will this pass?

I've been on Depakote since April and i know its not long but it feels like a lifetime of being unmotivated, really cant be bothered to do anything. I have also been taking quetiapine so could be that aswell. Before i started taking these meds i was always busy doing what needed to be done. I need my motivation back, stupidly i have stopped taking my tablets for a week now but at least i have the energy to do things and a bit more motivation back. Its worth mentioning to your doctor to see if they can try something else, definetly dont just stop taking them like i have. Hope you find something that helps

I could not sleep last night. I finally got to sleep at 5:30 am and woke up at 7 this morning. I had been feeling up all day, like high, but I had not drank or drugged at all. I don't drug and I rarely drink. I had a lot of creative ideas for writing something, but I was all over the place. Taking with people online, watching TV and listening to music at the same time and surfing the web aimlessly. When I laid down to get to sleep around, my mind woke up. Thoughts were swirling around and I got back up and began doing the same thing on the computer as before. Got my half hour of sleep and woke up. I thought it was just a bathroom break and then come back to bed, but I was wide awake. My housemates were surprised I was so energetic and talkative. I did not sleep all day. I had the same energy all day. Talked with friends on the phone and online. I felt really good. I get like this a lot lately. I call it my manic stage just because I do not know what else to call it. I know a massive crash is in my near future. I hope it waits for the weekend to pass because my housemates are in our hometown for two days and I am here by myself. My last psychiatrist diagnosed me as having major depression and general anxiety. But I was in a hospital prior to that and the doctor there said he believed I had bi-polar 2. But he wanted to let me outside psychiatrist decide for himself. He did not think it was bipolar 2 and told me so. From my research, it actually sounds like bipolar 2 to me, but I do not normally second guess doctors. I was not happy with him and foolishly out going. I felt I was not getting any better. I was still depressed, still anxiety ridden, just not as low as before. My general physician is currently treating me while her practice tries to find me a doctor who will take my insurance. She basically just prescribes Cymbalta and tells me if I feel like I am a danger to myself to call 911. The bad thing is that one of the only places that takes my insurance is the same practice I quit and they do not seem too eager to take me back. I would take any advice or insight you may have. I feel like I have been misdiagnosed. Meanwhile I do not feel tired at all at almost 11 pm. Up sixteen hours after less than two hours of sleep.

Do your mood swings during a day ? Like, the morning you're full of energy, you feel like nothing stop you, you dance and sing, you clean up your whole house, you laugh and walk hours and hours. But the evening...everything changes, I cry, I feel alone, I scream, I'm so irritated, infuriated, I suffocate. Do you experience this ? Is this normal?

I think I've gotten myself involved in too many activities. I started two classes about a month ago. One class is once weekly online. The other class is once weekly in person. I get to pick the times. As the online class is getting harder, I'm spending more time throughout the week studying and feeling pressure to be prepared. I'm thinking I need to go to every other week for this class. As for the in-person class, it's less pressure but I think I need to try going down from every week to skipping one class a month. Anyone else deal with something similar?

I have a serious problem being emotionally manipulative toward people in you can say a cruel way that hurts them emotionally. I seem to emotionally manipulate and Hurt those love.

Lately, I'm again wanting to cut someone out of my life, but I really need this person. I get so irritated with other people's quirks and shortcomings that I can't see my own.

A friend of mine is bipolar and I'm not sure how to describe it she just seems to disappear? for literally months at a time it has been at times 3-5 months doesn't reply to any texts or calls then just seems to come back and message etc as if the last months of nothing even happened. Currently again at about 3 months. I try not to take it personally or anything I'm just a bit out of my depth here. Is this common with people or there SO's on this forum? and what makes you/them do this do you think? I would just like to understand.

I've been doing really well the last 3 months, exercising, reading a lot even started volunteering. I've had plenty of energy to do things, feeling really good. I'm noticing that I'm starting to loose my motivation, I'm not exercising anymore and I've cut down on the reading. I also don't want to volunteer anymore. I think I might be swinging into another depression episode, I hope not. I'm not on a mood stablelizer, I'm taking Lurasidone, buproprion and Fluvoxamine. Maybe I was hypomanic the last 3 months, I felt so good that I didn't think of it. I don't want to go back on a mood stablelizer because I've lost a lot of weight over the last 7 months almost 70lbs and I don't want to get fat again. I would take lamotrigine if I wasn't so scared of getting a deadly rash. Lithium and Depakote make me gain weight. I hope that I'm not going into a depression again I hate this cycling. Can anyone relate to what I'm going through?

I understand some medications can make you drowsy and therefore make it harder to wake up but I often find myself sleeping at least 10-12 hours if I don’t have anything immediate to wake up for, and it used to go up to 14 hours before I got my Risperidone dose lowered a bit. When I sleep 7.5-8 hours, I feel sluggish and unmotivated, but I’ve read that oversleeping can lead to some serious health problems. Thoughts on this?

Trigger warning: I lost the love of my life due to a full blown manic episode last June. I apparently hurt her while I was manic but I honestly don't remember a thing. She didn't know I was bipolar and neither did I til I got rushed to the ER. She was my person, my best friend, we were planning to get married and everything but my manic actions scared her so much she had to leave me. It's been 2 months since I got out of the psych ward, now I'm properly medicated and recovering but I still can't stop thinking about how much I hurt and traumatized her. I never meant to do those things to her. I still have a hard time sleeping even on meds and I cry about it often. I've never lost anyone this important im my life. I feel so lost. Just wanted to ask if others here have lost important people due to manic episodes and how you cope. I really need some people to relate to because I'm having such a rough time coping.

I can be doing well feeling pretty balanced and whatnot. I'll get an idea of something I really wanna do/try. It's something I know I'd enjoy and get a lot out of. Not to mention it's something I genuinely think will benefit my working towards a job in my field. It sounds great, I can picture myself doing it. I love my professors and know they'd support me in every way. I wanna discuss this idea with them. But I'm scared of talking to them about it and letting them help me get things started because I honestly never have any clue if I'm gonna end up finishing it. I never really know if I'm acting on something because I'm genuinely excited and in a good place and can handle it. Or if it's the beginning of an episode. And even if it starts off genuine, it's always so terrifying knowing any minute I can lose that motivation. I know I can't be the only one who struggles with that

So for ever I have classified one of my episodes as "mixed", but since using the Dalio app I find the mixed episodes very hard to classify. I never called it mania, but could it be mania if I'm not enthusiastically happy about everything all the time? Is a mixed episode actually disphoric mania? Im only just realising that is a thing? Is it a thing?

I have been working on this campaign for a while now (I am the creative lead), at first it was just a one page moodboard and now it is a fully realized digital campaign, I still can’t believe it! I’m happy that I managed to get to this point. I’m sharing because I know that only people on here would understand the struggle that comes with these kind of big projects.

Hi everyone! I was diagnosed with bipolar a couple months ago. I’m slowly learning things about myself and my bipolar. I have been rapid cycling for the last two months and I ended up leaving my boyfriend of 10 years and moving out. I have so much regret leaving him. We still talk daily and he has been very understanding. I am trying to find myself and give myself space but all I want to do is go home. The relationship definitely had some toxic things happening that we both have agreed need to be fixed but he is my person. We got together at 14 and are now 24. We have grown so much and been through so much. Im just ranting to people who may understand where my head was at during the last couple months. I was not thinking straight and am so sad

Talked with my sister about my suicide attempts and how dumb the staff were in ER. She’s a doctor now and tells me how she gets reminded of me and those times. I close my eyes and I can relive it as if they were yesterday. The tube. The shirt. The looks and aftermath. That experience in its self is traumatic, but I remember sitting in front of the Psychiatrist, screaming at him how he couldn’t help me I could barely look at him while he sat there asking me why it is so hard for me to believe that anybody can actually help me. He was the one to diagnose me that day while I screamed and cursed at him for giving everyone around me a false hope with this new medication and therapy method. I was 21. All this time later, I’m still sitting here replaying that 11 hour long day in my head. It’s been 5 years now and I’m so tired. I’ve unlearned a lot of toxic behaviors, improved myself as an individual and I’m better at handling my mood now but I don’t feel like I’m living a life. I feel numb or I just feel anything and everything at the same time which is drowning. There is no in between. Is numbness the best I can get? Is this really living?

Being bipolar is hard, I don’t need to tell any of you and I’m not gonna ramble on about it cause frankly I’m tired. But I’ve spent over a year trying to explain to my family that being bipolar consumes my life. Getting healthy consumes my life and is a constant job. All they tell me is that I’ve made it my only personality trait and I’m not my diagnosis. I want a stable support system so badly and I want it to be them so badly. I know I can’t make anyone support me and it’s selfish to put my own issues on others but everything I read about being bipolar talks about how important it is to have a good support system. I feel like everything falls on my partner and it’s wearing her out. I just wish I could move on from this idea that my family has to be a support system for me because they clearly don’t want to be.

We'll get together and come up with a plan while depressed, our anxiety and pessimism will ensure we cover every possible problem. Then we execute the plan with the boundless confidence and energy of mania. It'll be grand y'all. Due to the nature of our disease, I am just going to say that this IS a joke and I do not think we should form The Bipolar Bank Robbers. This is a joke, I am not having a psychotic episode.

Insomnia, bad alimentation habits, oversexualization, agry most of the times and lack of focus are a burden for the body. How long do you think you are going to live? Not more than 50 in my case, my health is fading every year. Is really sad how it can be seen on family photos.

Does this happen to anyone else? It’s like I have imposter syndrome and don’t believe that I actually have bipolar. It feels like I’m just overreacting and am being lazy/sensitive/etc. But I know that I have bipolar 2. I’ve been formally diagnosed, twice. I can clearly see the patterns in my diaries, life path, and choices. But I still can’t shake the feeling that none of it’s real, or that it’s all just blown way out of proportion. It impacts me more than I’d like. I feel like a fraud, while at the same time still dealing with the illness. Just wanted to vent and see if I’m not alone, but I am also open to advice for how to believe and accept it.