Okay. And I had the pleasure of having some you're with me. He is one of the size of a Pennsylvania in America. How does the Samuel welcome to the show you, how are you doing today? Yeah. How's how's to cope. It affected you. Oh yeah, definitely. Definitely. I think. Oh yeah, definitely. And the rural areas, it's a, it's a little bit safer, you know, the sea because the population densities, this is a smaller, okay, fine. So lets start. Why are you usually do, is I ask you how your mental health journey began? So what are, you know, when it happened before you got diagnosed, how did you get diagnosed? What was going on around that time? So give me, give me, can he tell me how it all began for you to your journey with psychosis and Schizophrenia? You know, what I heard about this is that I don't know if you hear voices, but what I've had had is the voice it's the type of voice is that you had or localized to your, in your local environment. So like exactly what you're saying is there in the UK and America, they're more hostile because, because in our countries is very competitive. Life is very competitive. It is a highly capitalist. Whereas in countries, like I say, what it is more community it's kind of people support each other. So it's not like an India, the voice has a much more calm and soothing, you know, it's not, it's, it's, I've heard that before. So it's a, it's kind of localized to where you live, you know? So that's interesting that you, that you said that as well. I was going to say in the sense that when you look back now, the memory of those years is clouded. Is that, is that what you mean? Yeah, It? Do you think these people we're going to take revenge or is it just a general, a general feeling of being in danger? But I can't just have it sent to me. But that happens to me sometime as well. They say, So would you want to do? Or what might it, you know what I mean? What they said, you want to be on this, you know? Yeah. Is this like, you know, back then, this was like a few years ago. This would happen quite often. I would dictate how much medication or take, but now I think they've, they've become a bit harder and they, you know, they wouldn't allow me, they'd tell me what to do, but, but I think it was back then was a bit more crazy. And I, and I just, I was kind of angry all the time and I just wanted to be in control. So, but now I'm kind of more accepting I guess. And I just kind of like, okay, fine, I'll take your medication, whatever you would have you say where you want me to take in this sort of thing. Schizophrenia and yeah, it's a carry on. Tell me kind of thing. Oh, okay. So do you, do you believe then that shooting, you wear, you were a psychotic when that happened? Yeah. I mean, I had myself, I've had some Brown ones with the police. I'm not going to go into it now, but, but I, I was also deeply psychotic at the time. And, and sometimes it's like a base instincts kicking, like a survivalist and kick it kicks in. And you just try to, do you don't think about the law, I guess you just, you know, Yeah. So tell me, let me ask you some questions then. So how did you see the future now? You've had a, you know, a patchy past really? So how are you optimistic? Do you, I mean, what, what did you see? I mean, you know, you're still, you're only in your twenties, so you still pretty young and you got your whole life ahead of you. W where did you, what are your hopes for the future? Yeah. You know, I mean, I think when you have an illness, it's kind of a kind of forces you to live a certain lifestyle. A lot of people did, you spend a lot of time at home in recovery, but then like he said, you can go volunteering. You can do education. You could not go to a community drop pins. You know, you can even work towards an occupation if you, if that's what you want to do. So, I mean, now it's kind of a different lifestyle, but you do get some nice opportunities. And, and why is this a friend? Or like, you don't want anything too stressful, just want to do you want to live at your own pace? And, you know, so yeah. I definitely think helping people is, is a good thing to do because it's very, and in the sense that you do get rewards in the sense that it helps you and grows you as a person? Absolutely. Okay. Samuel I think we've, we've got a half an hour or so I'm gonna wrap it up here. Absolute pleasure to hear your story. I think you've had some scary experiences, but you know, you've got for you to go on an understanding of what was the cause, what was the case <inaudible> welcome to another episode of interview. I'm your host. And today I have the great pleasure of having Cody with me, Cody. This is in mid twenties and he lives in Florida in America. So welcome Cody, how you doing today? That's great, man. Are you, are you, I suppose you've got to wait quite a while before you get your vaccine. Yeah. But at least, at least we seem to be winning the battle. Now I think the worst is behind us. Okay. So let me ask you, if you could just give us a summary of how your mental health journey began. What were your first symptoms? How old were you? Did you require to go to the hospital? Did you see a consultant? You know, just talk about that. Give us a feel for how your story began. That'd be really excellent. And then from there it Okay. When did you see a doctor? So tell me about, Do you think the PTSD was, it was kind of caused by your mental health issues, creating trauma in your life? Hm. Okay. I was 20. Okay. Yep. Tell me what, what did you do if you dropped out of college, what did you do then? That the focus on your mental health? Okay. So how did that go there? Yeah, that sounds good. I find that quite a popular band. Well, they were quite popular band about 10 years ago. The kind of, I don't know what they're doing now actually, but the popular band man, so people will probably heard of them. Oh yes. Of course he committed suicide. I didn't hear And so how did it, and I mean, did you, did you get taken the hospital? Yeah, Okay. Fine. I mean depression. Yeah, that, that one is often with schizophrenia. I think PTSD. Yeah. That's a separate issue. And that's to do with your trauma from when you were young and did yeah. That's a complex disorder, isn't it? That's a complex disorder and schizophrenia is an upper complex disorder. Yeah. It must be quite difficult to deal with all of that, you know, especially because, you know, for me, I know my diagnosis, paranoid schizophrenia. I also take antidepressants is easy kind of me for, to, to know what that's part of my then see. So I can imagine must be much more difficult for you with dealing with four different diagnosis to see where you fit in that because it's, it's quite rare. I would think. Yeah, it is. So when you were in hospital, did you, did I keep you in a psychiatric ward? Yeah. So why understand by this order is that you can disassociate from reality for a period of time and you will have no recollection of that time, but you were active during that time, is that correct? Right. Which is to me is pretty scary. Really? I would think disturbing. So you had a near death experience? I did. That's fascinating. Do you want to talk about that? Just talk about what you're comfortable with. Yeah. Okay. How did you feel then? What else did you see? How was the feeling of that communication? Was it, was it warm? Was it cold? Was it balanced? How did you, how did you, do you remember that? I've seen them. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Do you looking back now from VAT experience, does that give you comfort or does it, does it make you afraid or do you just not think about it? Yeah. Yeah. I, I mean, in terms of spirits, it's kind of, you know, I think that has also got something to do with the hallucinations in schizophrenia. I do. You know what I mean by that? Hmm. I mean, you've gone through a hell of a lot. Cody you're only 24. You've gone really fru a hell of a lot. So how do you see your life moving forward? Is this how, I mean, how did you see your life and move forward as a future looking for you now? That's good, man. You can see them. Cody, have you done any further research into spirituality? Not really. No. No. I mean, it says because maybe your sensitive to that side of life, you know, I think you are sensitive to that side of life, to the spiritual realm. Yeah. So what is your business? No, Are you quite intelligent? Do you have like a high intelligence? I that was kind of what I was getting up because I would imagine that you're creating some sort of tech using technology and converting real life processes into computerized processes does take a degree of intelligence. Yeah. What about your D your relationships? How have your relationships with people improved? Yeah. You know, a lot of folk that don't really understand the sorts of phenomenon, you know? So it's difficult. What, what do you do, do you, do you want to talk to people and, and explain, you know, to have somebody understand what you went for and what you're going, for example, since you, And do you, and there's a degree of frustration that it doesn't happen in everyday life, Okay. Do you think you might have a touch of autism? Okay. So, I mean, okay, you've got your business, which is quite dry, isn't it? But I imagine the technological side gives you some satisfaction. And also the fact that you could, you could be quite one off financially, if it's successful, what else do you like to do? Is it, are you looking for connections? Is that important? I think that's important as the wheel. We all want that connection. I think because also that's kind of, if you're sensitive to the spiritual side of life, in terms of spirit connections, the most important thing, because we realize that a spirit that we all connected, there's no, there's no barriers. It's who we are, is what you see. So maybe the fact that you're sensitive to the spiritual side, maybe that's a reflection on, on who you are, if you know what I mean. Okay. Okay. Quite amusing, isn't it? Yeah. What about movies, specifically movies, which you can relate to? Is that something that you enjoy? Okay. Cody. Well, I mean, you know, we could, I could talk a lot more, but we've, you know, I think, I think that's fine for now. I was hoping we can wrap it up here. Why do ask the two more questions? The first question is, is there anything I haven't asked you that you'd like to talk about? Now's your chance? Well, Yeah. Hmm. You know, detective solving problems, those types of skills, they are quite relevant in many different areas of life and work, not just in the police department, even in your technology field, you probably enjoy it because there's the puzzles. And then there's a lot of that going on in different areas of work, I think. And even in life to solve your problems about ourselves, our own identity, where we fit in in the world, you know, what, what, where did, where did that people go? You know, all these sort of puzzles that, that to be sold, you know? So there's a lot of, there's a lot of bad life. Okay. So I can find what kind of they, I think we better wrap it up here. What, my final question is this, what is your preferred drama of music? John wrote music. Okay. Okay. Fine. You know, I just want to say thank you very much for telling your story. It was very interesting, you know, My pleasure, man. Seriously, my pleasure. I I've I've said this Abra guests that I do hope to have people on repeat shows eventually identify that will happen, but it's something that I would like to do. So, you know, you're more than welcome to come back at a later stage. I'm pretty sure that you'd like to actually, maybe, I don't know, talk to an altar too and have them introduce themselves and tell their, I dunno. I mean, strictly this is a schizophrenia show. I mean, one of them actually has a lot more schizophrenia than I do, but okay, fine. Well, we can talk about that later, but that was fine. But just want to say thank you again. Absolute pleasure. I didn't mean to take away from the whole schizophrenia thing with that is fine because at the end of the day, it's about you as a person and how your story with your life. And one of your diagnosis of schizophrenia, it doesn't make schizophrenia is not your identity. It's just a condition that you have and you also have conditions, not as Hello, welcome to another episode of interview with the schizophrenia. I'm your host. <inaudible> tell you. I had the great pleasure of having Trevor with me. Trevor is 37 and he's from Ohio in America and he has a diagnosis of schizophrenia. So welcome to the show, Trevor, how are you doing today? Yeah, I'm doing pretty good as well, man. It's the weekend and the weekend is always nice. So I'm just kicking back chilling. I was watching the Disney channel last night, some of the new series about captain America. So yeah, just, just chilling out, man. So Trevor, what I want to ask you, if you'd give us a brief history of how your schizophrenia started in a way, if you go back to the beginning and talk about what happened, w what were your first symptoms and how it all began that, you know, at this talk us Frieda, you're not be really fantastic. Okay. Okay, man. Yeah. So, no you're talking about when you're 16 and your guys taunting, did you mention that because you might feel that it's connected to your diagnosis? Okay. Okay. Fine. Because I'm the about depression. I feel because I feel looking at my own history that I was depressed in my late teen years. And you can actually get some, you can actually get diagnosed school, psychotic depression, where you're, the depression is so severe. It brings on psychosis. I mean, do you think that might have happened to you? Do you take, add psychotics? Ahead Okay. Okay, fine. Trevor, do you have voices at the moment? Okay. Okay. Fine. So your, are you claiming disability at the moment? Okay. Okay. Fine. I mean, do you feel this illness has essentially, you know, taken away your quality of life? Has it, has it mean that you can't work or that you can't socialize in a normal way? I mean, because of the schizophrenia, None of the carry on, carry on. Yeah. Okay. Fine. What do you feel is the, is the biggest barriers for you at the moment when you know you, cause your voices are a bit lighter, you're feeling a bit better the last six months while your barriers at the moment, which prevent you from, from living a normal life, Okay. Fine. Have you ever experienced, I mean, okay. Let me ask you some questions. Have you ever experienced any discrimination you'd like to talk about Yeah. I see your point. I mean, I know Trevor, we go on the same forum and he's also one of my Facebook friends. You often talk about the tailbone wagging as well, don't you? I, I don't really understand that. You know, Trevor, I think, you know, when I see your posts on like the triers scrape the Talbert, I think it needs to be translated. I think you have the speed. You have the, your own understanding of that, which is probably quite clear. But for other folks that don't really understand that they probably have to be translated into, into a way that other folks can understand. I think that's probably what <inaudible>. Okay. Why don't you tell me about your art, because I know you also produce a regional art pieces. Cool. Do you have a website of your art? Okay, cool. I'll put the link in the description of this episode. Okay. Trevor, I just want to ask you two more questions. Is there anything I haven't asked you that you'd like to talk about if you, you like to talk about anything, what would it be? Okay. Fine. Yeah. I mean, it can be confused or confusing condition and sometimes we want to lash out. So I, I completely understand where you're coming from, you know, Trevor. Okay. And the final question, can you tell, let me know a particular type of music that you prefer, and I will include it on this episode, I like electronic, electronic or Cool, cool. Okay. Trouble. I just want to say thank you very much for speaking with me. You know, I always, I like your pace on Facebook. You post some amusing sort of like, like poems or limericks. Like they always kind of make me chuckle. So thank you. Thank you for that. And your, you know, you're always on the forum and I try, always try to read your pies. So I just, I'm glad that you agreed to join me today. I mean, as well, pleasure. Yeah. Okay. And that is the end of this episode.To another episode of Interview with a schizophrenic today, I have Christine with me from New Jersey America. She has to be 20 free and she was diagnosed with schizophrenia a couple of years ago. And she had multiple diagnoses. How did Christina welcome to the church? Or how are you? I'm fine. I'm doing well. How are you doing? Good. So usually I started the show by asking to guest how it all started. So Christine how, how did your mental health journey starts? You would talk about schizophrenia in 2018. Tell me about that. What happened with that? Okay. That's, you know, that's kind of like an unusual, isn't it to have that such an early age. You know what I was talking about this before, but, but you know, if they, you know, there's differing ideas of what causes severe mental illness, but, you know, there is a, there is a case for just being predisposition because the statistics, you know, the one in 100 patient people got schizophrenia that it stays pretty much constant. Right? So that, that, that does that, that was back up the predisposition ferry. Did you know what I mean? Rather than, you know, cause some people say you go for a trauma, so maybe the trauma triggers it, but you know, you know, there's, you know, if the statistics say the same, it's kind of, that kind of saves, you know, there's like a pre this position, if you know what I mean. Okay. So, so your only 23, your big, but you've started early. So that's okay. That's great because you sound quite, you sound, what's the word quite low. Louie said, you know, you, you sound, you sound fine. Whereas, you know, w for a regular person that he was 23 and has schizophrenia, they might be in the chronic phase. Are you, are you in the chronic phase on it or not? I actually think I saw on your profile on the net. Well, you know that when I was researching me that you, you take a little bit, do you take a lot of medication? Don't you? Okay. That's yeah. That's quite unusual to go in as if you're here. So how did those medications affect you? Do you agree with your psychiatrist prescribing you the amount of medication So we're you have this amazing. I have to work after the visuals work. You know, when I was, I got, I first became Hello when I was about 25. But what I'm saying is when I, when I was younger in my twenties, my hallucinations, they ceased it, but it was, it was recently I'm 45 now, but it was about 10 years ago when I started again, quite severely to say, you know, and when you're young and strong, you know, that's good, but you just got to be careful when you get older as well. Cause what happened to me? I think, but I guess there's no, you know, obviously it's different than would be different for everybody. I think so. Never heard of before, you know, 'cause yeah, my, my psychiatrist, you know, it's different, you know, I am I supposed to be, and maybe the medical, medical advancements, you know, medical is, medicine is more advanced than America that in Britain, but I'm not on my psychologist and never said that to me, 'cause, I, I definitely have motives that, you know, getting youth to the medication and, and how did we search and so symptoms. So that is, that is kind of interesting. Yeah okay. See, Christine you told me earlier, you actually worked in a psychiatric nurse. I do. Yes. So that gives you a, quite a unique perspective in your day job. So why don't you tell us a little bit about, you know, You know? And so how did you know when you, when you were a private for the job, how did that work? If you having schizophrenia and these various conditions? I mean, did you face discrimination? I mean, what, what was that like? Okay. But you, but you were thinking about that when you hear me, if you had mentioned it. Yeah. Okay. So how about your friends and family? How did I? I mean, obviously you've had an illness from a young age, so, but how did they treat you? Did you, did you notice them treat you any differently because of, because of your schizophrenia diagnosis? Yeah. I think I'm. And so what about this school as well? When you're in a school Yeah. He said, that is definitely what I find to be quite a difficult aspects of I'm having a schizophrenia because you can't, I mean, you kind of, you do, you know, like any severe illness, you do need support and it's always difficult with schizophrenia. You are double guessing yourself because you're second guessing yourself because you of anything, if I could tell the truth, this past session is going to get a Friday. I'm just not speaking to me. Right. When really you're just, everybody needs a kind word and I've been to support you. Okay. So that's a tough, that's tough. So yeah. So you had, you had that at least in nations. Did you want to speak about the delusions? Is that something that you want to share it? You know, I think when you're young and your parents such a big figure in your life, sorry, I reckon if that makes sense here, you won't have delusions about your parents'. You know, when, when, when I was the first became, you know, I used to think my parents trying to poison me, you know, I remember one semi some dinner and it was wrapped up in foil and that's the first time I'd seen that. And I fought, I just got poisoned in that and I didn't need it. And afterwards I feel really guilty or they made me a nice meal and I was like being a, you know, things are stupid about it, but yeah, that's just, that's just part of, part of it is isn't it, you know? Yeah. So it's a while. What are the delusions have you come from? Are you okay? I know you mean, okay, fine. And you know, because yeah, I, I delete the collisions with schizophrenia, quite tough because obviously your second guessing your mind, you know, you can't trust your mind, come here, which is, which can be very scary. And that was going to say it is what you think. Mmm. What do you think is schizophrenia is what are you? You know what I do you think it is a physical, a brain disorder or something else? Okay. Right? So if that's the case, why is that not a blood test or like a physical, a medical test to diagnose it? Okay. But, but, but your talking with your nurse hat on, on here, I want you to tell him, I want you to tell me what you think would be your patient hat on Hmm. Yeah, because I do, you know, you're the first person who has explained the medical effects of schizophrenia on the brain. And that is interesting. And I think I've heard about it before, but the, I mean, I kind of have my own fairies, but I guess, I guess that's what you do. You do, you, do you have your own theories about what the illness is and what, you know, what causes your least of Asians And because you need to rationalize it. Right. Okay, fine. So that's fantastic. I think, you know, your, your, your working, your coping, you have a good handle on it. What are your, what did you do out of work when you want to relax yourself? Relax. You have your mind. I know you talked, I know you do some art. What's the one you'd want to tell him, tell me about that. Okay. And does that help you? Yeah. You know, I D I do exactly the same. I, I like, I love taking protocols as well, you know it, and so I'll take the photographs, I'll put them in my computer, edit 'em and then share them. And like you say, it is very therapeutic. That's great. A new role. So It does it help? Does it help? Another big gamer. She was four years younger than mine. And actually last night when we're playing Minecraft, we're building in Minecraft. If you're not, that's fantastic. Christine, let's, let's go over up here. I'm you've been absolutely a pleasure to speak with very illuminating. You know, you know, I, I think you spoke to as a, as a sufferer and also as a professional, you know, which is, which gives you an interesting perspective and you know, it it's, you know, a couple people I've interviewed have I asked if they can come back. So, you know, that offer is opened to you as well. Once, once we got a few more episodes done, definitely look at bringing people back to talk forever on how are they doing, you know, from the reflections. So, yeah. So I would love that. I would love to come back and you've been great to talk to talk to you. And I actually love getting the information out there and talking, talking about what goes on in my head, but I think, I think that that's, you know, that's just got to talk more and that was fantastic. So thank you very much. And we will end the show on some electronic music with Christine expressed a, a light for me. Thank you so much. He was an Oklahoma and his diagnosis of schizophrenia with generalized anxiety. So welcome to the show, Brandon, how you doing today? Doing well. How are you? Yeah, I'm doing pretty well as well, actually. Yeah, the weather's getting warmer here. Escape a bit more. There's a bit more sunlight then. We'll sunshine. So that's all good. Really? <inaudible> Yeah. Yeah. We had a little bit of snow for about couple of weeks, but hopefully that's the end of it. Yeah. Okay. So let's just dive in. So Brad Walden asked you is if you can give us a brief history of how your mental health journey began, what were your first symptoms? How old were you, you know, how did you go to the medical system? How, what happened that you saw a doctor, you know, any troubles that you had, anything you'd like to say about your journey up till today, you know, about that would be, if you could just talk about Expand on, on what you mean by persecutory delusions. And when was that? When, when was that? What year was that? So you were taking, I imagine because, because I think the mental health hospitals, what's these days quite high security on day. Okay. Yeah. Once a month or something, isn't it, I will Mitchell. I'm not sure what the most If it's not some old medication, isn't it? The w four milligram Risperidone is the top of that, isn't it? More affordable. Yeah. Because it's kind of strange because obviously in the UK, which is paid on 10 pounds a month for any medication that we want. But yeah. So I, you know, yeah. It's obviously, you know, if I had to pay a thousand pounds for my medication, I probably wouldn't be able to afford it, Eva. You know, that's kind of, it's kind of a, that's kind of ridiculous, really. I think, Yeah, that's true. There are financial implications about going through psychosis, for sure. I think it's quite, it's not just while you're talking about getting cut off for not paying a bill, there's also bad spending habits. And I just, things like that, which happened generally, But that's good that you are much more stable now, but I can tell it's still a big part of your life. You know, it's a, it's a big diagnosis has been a big experience for you as well. So what, what how'd you feel about your mental health now? I mean, how did you feel about it now? What would you do to make sure that you don't relapse You know, having a support network is important. You've got your girlfriend, you know, what about, I just wondering what's going on a slightly different angle. So when it, how did your friends react when, when you went into hospital, you saw medication that they did your relationships change with your friends. I'm just wondering, because I think a lot of normal folk saying that not everybody gets clear headed, you know, a lot of friends do have delusions. What do you think separates normal <inaudible> lesions and people such as yourself who, who needed to see a doctor, you know, what, what is, what is the difference? I think, I think it will say it's like what you said about causing harm to yourself or to others when it gets to that extreme level. That's when medics take you pretty seriously. So that, I mean, I think if you want a good position, now you've gone through the hospitals, the hospital experience and taking your medication, which keeps you stable, your work in your employment, then you think, cause I know a lot of people that I interview and generally the statistics say that most schizophrenia people do not work. So do you find that working is a benefit to you? Do you think that helps? Do you, do you consciously limit yourself now and for the foreseeable future about not putting yourself into environments, which would be too stressful? How do you feel? How do you feel schizophrenia is portrayed in the media and how would you like to see it changed? I mean, <inaudible>, I don't have to delete for lost about eight years. I don't have delusions, which are harmful to me, so I still, I just still can listen. I, it doesn't go away. It just, it's just that when I wake up in the morning and it's just something that I've got to deal with, but it wasn't always like that because what happened was I stopped taking medication for about one year and the symptoms came flooding back because I stopped taking the medication. Cause I fought, I was better and I fall, if I stopped taking it, then I wouldn't have the side effects and I would be just normal. But I made a mistake. This was 2010 and the symptoms came back really bad and I had to get more medication. I was just, it was just horrible. So I ever since then I've been hearing voices all the time. So I think it was because I stopped the medication that it was a, it backfired on me. That's why I suspect. But yes, I mean, because it's one reason I did this podcast is, is because there's not, I just wanna, I just want to raise awareness and for, for this, for a few reasons, one thing at the moment, which I think is useful is for people, my cost who have the diagnosis who want to listen to something to show that I'm not alone. That's number one. And then number two is for normal folk to get educated and to have awareness of the condition, because rightly say so many people have to grow like there of the illness. Like all you think it's like a dissociative disorder or that we're violent, we're by the lax murderers, you know? And so it's just a question of paying their costs that we're normal. People just have a diagnosis. This is what we go through and we go take medication for it. And you know, this is our story. So I think that is that's know, that's, that's what I think is important. I would imagine if you stopped taking your medication, like I did, you would probably have a hard relapse That's the stigma discrimination. And I think it's so unfair. I have a law called the, the equality act and you can't disagree this discriminate against someone who has a long-term mental health condition, but it's so hard to implement because, you know, they could just say, Oh, well, is this wasn't up to the grade? Or he had these sick days. So we had to get rid of them. So germane site, Yeah. Yeah. Yes, it does. I know. So I was going to say it's probably better for you that you're working in your home country. Yeah. So while I was setting this up, I worked overseas as well, but it's more dangerous when you're overseas and you have a psychotic break because you don't have the system so well, and you're more vulnerable. So that's what I'm saying. It's quite better to be at home in your home country where, you know, the system it's a safer, I would say. Okay. Probably is the last two questions. The first question is, is there anything you'd like to talk about that I haven't asked you? That's good. That's why I want to hear. And the final question is what is your preferred type of musical January so that I can talk that music on at the end. I've only got, I can't pay for food. I just want to say it was absolutely comfortable for me. <inaudible>.Hello, and welcome to another episode of Interview with a schizophrenia. I am your host Duncan Samarasinghe now and today I have a guest from United Kingdom. Shannon hello, Shannon. How are you doing it today? You know, not necessarily fine. The weather was nice. Well, that actually, I actually had to come down with a bit of a virus. I'm wondering if this occurred of ours is, but I'm not sure if I tell her I'm I'm not entirely sure what it is, but it might just be, you want to just be stressful, something in there anyway. Let's lets start the interview. So Charlotte, tell me how did your mental health journey begin? You see that it, was it a dream or was it a hallucination? What was that So did you, did you got admitted to hospital or do you see a GP? What would happen then? So this would have been about the, about the turn of the century. Wouldn't be at about year 2000 or, and then around then? Yeah, I actually became ill. I actually went and lost a little bit around that time as well. My first admission. Yeah, it was a, cause it was a lot different back then because I don't know if you've been to a mental health ward recently, but there are lots of different to how they were the same 20 years ago. Yeah, because that's like back then we had like a smoking room. Did you ever smoke? Is like where the smoking room when you could smoke and you know, it was normal, know Yeah, because it was, it was for people for that. It would be the skits people with mental health smoke as a relief, you know, which is kind of true. But with these, these days is it's a legalism that you are not allowed to smoke in the hospital. So you go so well, what was your diagnosis? What did they diagnose you with? Okay. Okay. And do you were diagnosed at 18? Yeah. Yeah. So did I pay your medication? And Rarely. Yeah. But brain hemorrhage. I mean, w so was it a mild hemorrhage or was it, did you, it says quite okay. Arterial, Okay. Okay. So when did it all started up again, then you said a word? And so what started again? Okay. Okay. And that's a psychotic break has essentially a break from reality it's when you, it's what you perceive as reality a non-reality get, get mixed up. So basically your schizophrenia, his symptoms returned. So did they put your medication like a again or Okay. Okay. And where are you getting any side effects Not all the children. Okay. Okay. So, so of course, some questions answer. How did your friends react? Cause it's kind of different with you because you, you got better and then you, then you re relapsed in a way. It didn't you send it to your, how did your friends react when you, when you relapsed? It was, was that okay? Or? Okay. But I think, I think it's the best way is to be open. I think, I think it only becomes difficult if you're in like a, an office environment where they can be, cause it can be quite toxic and they can do you know what I mean? They, they weren't at work and like understand. It's all about like, like, you know, like mental strength and all of this sort of thing you do, you know, it's not that I have a mental illness is not a weakness. It's just the condition. Right. But if you, I feel it can be some, some like work environments can be toxic and difficult to talk about mental health, like, and especially schizophrenia, because there's so much discriminating. Have you ever face discrimination or, or stigma and like you are in your life? Okay. So the fact that you're a stay at home, mom, is that, is that to do with mental health? Is that because you don't want to work because of your mental health condition? Is that, is that a factor? Yeah. I mean, there are, there are a lifetime jobs and mental health, like, like peer supports, were you when your peer support work and when you help, you know, I would say young people with mental health problems. Yeah. That, that sort of thing was quite good. See you at the time. And so I had at the moment, how is it, how are you coping at the moment? Because obviously I found you on the schizophrenia, the community on the internet. So how are your, how's it, how's your life effected at the moment Yeah. So the negative symptoms are like, like apathy, the depression withdrawal that are kind of yeah. That is that they make the, making it hard to live their day to day 'cause you might, you might not have, it may be difficult to stick to a daily routine because of the negative symptoms. Because I, I mean, I also get affected by as well. Yeah. I know it is quite difficult. So what, what, what are your sort of things do you have delusions about? So how do you to read minds? Did you hear voices as well? Okay. Because I'm like, okay, fine. I mean, you said, so if you're, if you're, if you can read someone's mind, you hear it as a force, whereas a voice in the head. Oh, okay. 'cause, that's kind of like, Mmm. There's a couple of things here that may be complicated, but one thing is a woman's intuition. The woman's intuition is a natural kind of accepted way of like women can understand what somebody's thinking. And also has schizophrenia, controversially. There is a bit of a psychic element in it, which is not, it's not, you know, its kind of, it's not mainstream. It's not taught by in medical school. But you know, there is a lot of talk about it that it could be a psychotic element. So there are all, there are a couple of things in there, but yeah, I know that the lesions can be, can be troublesome because it can, it can conflict with your reality. So what you believe the voices are? Yeah. Is it for the, I don't know. I mean, I always have voices and it can be quite painful and stressful and there would be telling that doctor never tells her, I've got to talk to sales as well as a chemical imbalance type of medication and it will go away basically. But for us who is, we experience it every day, you know, is difficult, you know? I don't know yet. Yeah. I mean like, cause I also, my voice sounds like people are not in it. So I got angry with those people in real life. Do you know what I mean? By that, but it's difficult. It's difficult to confront them because I, because how can you do that? You know, in general, I mean it's, it's kind of its kind of difficult, but then it could just be, it could be nothing to do with them whatsoever. So yeah. So what sort of things do you do in your life to help you cope with your mental health symptoms? Do you, do you do and so you listen to music? Yes. Yeah. Yes. Quite a bit. And do you practice any arts or anything? Yeah. Because definitely like, like I think, I think, eh, you know, when you have a schizophrenia diagnosis, part of it is to, is to express to your loved ones, what your feeling and what a good way is to draw and to paint and to show your emotions on the, on the paper. And I think that's it. And that's a nice way to say, okay, this is great. What would you, is there anything you would like to say to anybody listening? You know, is that something which I haven't asked you about, which you would like to say? Okay. It was a normal path, you know, you know, 'cause you got schizophrenia or if you read it in the news, it's usually by a serial killer or something like this with parents, which is a very disturbing for 99% of people diagnosed with schizophrenia because we're struggling with strange symptoms. We would like to be accepted by it by people not to be stigmatized. You know? I agree with you. Okay. That's great. Let's take, let's wrap it up here. Thank you very much for speaking with me, I will add some music to be like, hopefully you would like to just shine. So at the Shannon the lights cold waves of thought. <inaudible> to speak to you. <inaudible> hello and welcome to another episode of interview with a friend. I'm your host today? I have the pleasure of having Nicole. She is from normal Illinois. She's 50 years old and as a nurse, schizoaffective disorder with ADHD. So Nicole, welcome to the show. How are you doing today? Absolutely. My pleasure. So the first question it's slightly different than usual. Why wouldn't I ask you is how has your mental health today? That's good. That's good. You know, I mean, cause you're a similar age to me. I think when we got to our age, we kind of get used to it, you know, and it's and cope, coping skills a little bit better than when we were in our twenties and thirties. No, the information is the kind of recycle the same old things I notice, you know? And, and you kind of think, yeah, I know about that. I know about that. It's like, it's like when folks say, Oh yeah, you've got to exercise and eat well. Yeah. We kind of know about that. You know? I mean new information, you know, Okay. So I want to ask you is if you could give us a brief history of your mental health journey and how it began and that'd be great. I Okay, fine. So, I mean, you have been for a hell of a lot by the sounds of it, I guess from leaving school till 2000, you know, things probably were okay. I don't know. It seems everything sort of started and snowballed after them. And maybe your oldest son committed suicide. Maybe that was a severe trigger for you. Yeah. I mean, I've, I haven't had a suicide in my family, but from what I have heard about it, it can be extremely distressing when it's somebody that's close to you. I think, I think that's. Yeah. So that, that would probably be a major trigger Yeah. I mean, you know, it's definitely from what I've read, they say trauma is considered to be a major factor in causing psychosis. There are other factors, but to be honest, trauma is what I recognized with myself as well. My life is different to yours, but I still feel that trauma is probably a major factor and it can cause, you know, I guess when you have a psychotic break, your mind is rejecting your reality and creating a new one, it's creating a new reality of what we can cope with, you know? So that, that's what it's doing. So I can, you know, I can imagine that it's the mind it's the mind is doing this job, you know? So that is fine. So yeah, but you've got a daughter. Have you got any? You know, I written a book about it's taught there's this person. So you get people in the channel from the spirit world into you, you know what Chan, you know, channeling and they can channel. Yeah. Okay. Well, hold on a second. But so now we're talking about Nazis after world war II and Sydney, when they were crossed over and they realized what they'd done, they were inconsolable and they would just impermanent suffering after the, after that death. You know? And it's, I guess that's just how it is, you know, but also I think what, if you live this life thinking that's the end, this is all that is, that's no life, you can't live a life like that because that's fair as ignorance, you know, you know, the people that get so afraid and they, they don't hoard everything. And because they think that's it, right? Yeah. I guess maybe, Yeah. My belief is different than I actually am. I believe the spirit world in a sense is more real than this world because this world, you know, like what we see in television and the movies and what happens in real life is different. You know, people are weird. Right? Okay. Yeah. So what I was saying is, you know, I don't think this world, this world is kind of fake, you know, because a lot of people they're just full of shit and they don't go through report. They mean, you know, so whereas in some ways the spirit world is more real because people are genuine. You know, the spirits are genuine. Their spirits are who they do. You know what I mean? It's like, it's what you feel. It's like, it's what you feel inside you. When you feel hanging inside, you can tell if that's true or false, right. You can tell, right. It's just like a feeling, you know, it's like, and when you go through these mental health conditions, psychosis, you know, you, you're relying on your feeling to tell you what's real and what the hell is going on. Everything else is out the window, you know? So you've got to rely on your failure. And I, I also feel that I can, I can communicate with that. People, basically my family, like my parents and stuff, but I, I, I can inkling, you know, I don't, I just a feeling, you know, it's like when I went to hospital to get my vaccine job, I had the freedom. My dad came with me there and he said, Oh, it's so cold head to the spirit world where it's like some moon, like love and stuff in the, in the hospital. And it's bloody freezing because people are just, you know, in Schiller. And yeah, it's interesting. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. It's hard to model and all. And also what annoys me is that, why would you waste your life? Just spreading bullshit. Right. You know, if you're going to live on life on earth, what is the point? You know, people on the wheel. And so many people are not well. Right. And then Yeah. Okay. Nicole, I think, you know, we've, we've gone quite long today, but it was, it was fascinating to talk about, you know, spirituality as well as mental health, you know? Cause they go hand in hand. I was also going to say, you know, sometimes I reckon that you've got a sense of humor because when it loads a ship, things happen in your life, you've just got a smile about it. You know, you can do before you can do, right. Yeah. That's all you can do. Because when all this shit happens, you think, okay, so what the hell else is going to happen? Sort of thing. Oh, I think that's a good, because a similar thing in my life, but I think that is a good gauge to know that you're on the right path, you know, because cause, cause, cause that's, cause it's hard. Right? I think that's, that's the way, you know. Okay. Well I got two more questions. The final question is, is there anything you want to talk about that we haven't discussed so far? Yeah. I think you can, you know, Yeah. I think, yeah. That's a good message. And that's a similar message to Y Y like to project as well. And I think, I think, you know, there's, there's something to say about positive role models in mental health, because we do lack that in making a serious mental health, like psychosis, we do like those positive role models and that's so important. Okay. And the final question is, could you just tell me what kind of music do you like? Because I, I played music. Have you the shirt? What kind of music do I like? I don't have, you know what, anything my go-to is Stevie Nicks and Fleetwood Mac. The white witch eighties. Yeah. <inaudible> talk to you too. Thank you so much for your time. Hope everything goes well. And for you I'm fearlessness. When I listen to this, I'm sure it'll be. I just want to thank you very much. Thank you. <inaudible>.Hello and welcome to another episode of Interview with schizophrenia. I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I have the pleasure of having Eagle from Helsinki and Finland and he's 22 years old and he has a schizoaffective diagnosis, Halloween Eagle. Welcome to the show. How you doing today? And I haven't been, I've never been to Finland actually I have now is it, does it get dark quietly? Do you live in the city or do you live in a, in a peaceful area or Yeah. Okay, fine. Let's start. So what I was going to ask you is if you give us some background to your condition, when you first noticed the symptoms, what symptoms did you have? Did you go into a hospital or were you diagnosed for your doctor? If you just give us a little bit of a background so we can understand how it started for you? You know, people would consider it an apparition or, or something of that nature. What did you consider that? Or, You it's strange because when you tell it to me and to the listeners who used to this now, you know, we, we forget yet you've had hallucinations or it's strange in a normal everyday life. You know, it's kind of like an extreme condition and people, I guess, normal medical people, they kind of deny it, you know? And he is frustrating because I remember once I, I was having awful and he said, I wanted to go to a hospital and they wouldn't let me go in. And they, they didn't believe me. So, you know, I kind of can see where you're coming from you now is not something that you can prove. You can't really prove it. So it just comes down to the common human courtesy of trust and the medical physician, listening to your symptoms and accepting them, which is what I would do. If you had a bad back, you'd say my back is in pain. It's over, they're down the left side, you know, can you have a look? And they would believe you, so, yeah. Is he a carrier? So what, so you were in the hospital for voluntary admission. Yeah. Like, and how you, you were talking about like giving you a depression medication, Prozac. I have a bit, Yeah. It's like a cliche, isn't it? Yeah. So carry on. Yeah. It's a trade off, isn't it? Yeah. And if you're, it depends how seriously you take hours, seriously, you trust the medication. And if you're willing to work through the side effects that it's a trade-off. And I think most people who are psychotic or, or bipolar, they, they will take their medication. Right. And, and I think there may be 10 years later, you might join an anti-psychotic tree movement and say to, you know, whatever. I mean, yeah, it's a difficult one, but yeah, yeah. Yeah. I think, I think, I think the paranoia, I used to have a paranoia when I was claiming sick with the benefits I thought, do I really deserve the benefits? You know, am I actually quite well and am I, is this just, is this just my just kinda making a big deal out of this? You know? And, and, and just kind of like a self, self stigma, you stigmatize yourself and he felt, you know, and, and it's, yeah. It's, yeah, I agree is a huge battle to get the correct diagnosis or a diagnosis, which matches closely to your experiences. Because, I mean, I think, I think I only got diagnosed with actual schizophrenia in 2010, and my other diagnosis was, was psychotic episodes. And it takes a while for them to take you seriously and you put up, you're going to be quite determined to make your voice heard. And, and I think for you, obviously you had to go to the United States because in Finland, they have, like you say, they have an obsession with depression. So, I mean, you know, so the same, did they prescribe any medication? So at the moment you're quite stable, but I mean, you did tell me that you do have a little bit of paranoia. I mean, is that true? Yeah. I mean, I think it's good that you are feeling in a, in a, mostly in a good state and then you kind of know yourself, you know, what can, you know, what you, that you makes you find uneasy and what makes you uncomfortable? So that's kind of a good, because I think you definitely must have a good level of insight. I would say to agree with me. Think so. Yeah. What is, what is your, what is your occupation? What the study, what is it that you're going to do with your life? That is going to be a positive Kind of cool. I think, I think that's going to be good. Like a, like a well chosen profession for this kind of condition because it's so fair P tech and just help. That's awesome, man. That's awesome. Okay. So let me say hello. I'll ask you some questions. How did your family sounds very supportive so that, you know, I think that's true. Isn't it? What about your friends? I mean your friends, it must be difficult with you moving different countries from Helsinki to America. What, how did your friends treat? Because I'm just wondering, I always get questions because sometimes people do receive some sort of a stigma from people that I know and it can be quite painful, you know? So, you know, sometimes you have a, you have this condition and then also your loved ones. Sometimes they can turn on you. Yeah. That's cool. Okay. I'm going to wa we're almost at the end. What I wanted to ask you. One more question. Well, kind of a question is if there's anything I haven't asked you, but you would like to tell me about any point you'd like to raise anything. Now's your chance? What is it you'd like to say? Yeah. I know you may. I think it has no reason to be a friend it's always better to seek help while to ignore the symptoms. And it's like, what you said earlier, it's not like a sentence, like a death sentence. Yeah. But you can still, even people who you know about the services around with your not working, there's so much, so many things you can still do and you know, so it just, the main thing is just to get help. Isn't it really, Okay, cool. I think we wrap this up. Eagle I just want to ask you what type of music do you like a bit so I can add on to the end. Okay. Well, thank you very much. Speaking with me today. You're my first guest. Finland you know, I think, you know, I think you've experienced the lie that young age, but I've got a great, <inaudible> Hello, this is Duncan, your host, for episode one of Interview with a schizophrenic. And I'm very happy to say that I've got Frank from New York with me. So we are both schizophrenic and we are going to talk about a schizophrenia and how it affects Frank how were his experiences, his symptoms and see how it goes. So Frank, can you first tell me if we go back to 2011, when you are diagnosed, what happened then and how were you diagnosed, what were you experiencing? So when you were diagnosed, you had an examination with a psychiatrist? And, and how, how did the psychiatrist diagnose you? Did you have an assessment or how did you go? I think at the start, like for me it was, it goes against everything that we were conditioned to be as people, because, because, it sounds crazy, doesn't it, so you don't want to say this and that and it's so hard, but now I guess it seems easy, but back then it was so hard. Yes so carry-on. So tell me what are some, tell me about the symptoms. What were you experiencing mentally? Synchronicities That is very scary isn't it? Yeah. So obviously you are going for a tough time that you, you were working in, in 2008, you're doing a good job. Then the mental symptoms, you know, it started with you and then you got diagnosed with schizophrenia and you have the legal problems. So then in your life, your whole life changed. Right? So, I mean, I mean, tell me about that. Okay, cool. So you told me, we've already spoken before, and you told me that you or your healer and you're in the spirituality. So why don't you tell me something about that, what, what are your spiritual beliefs and how does it relate to your occupation as a healer? Totally. diseased mind man, I don't think it's not a diseased mind. It's like, you know, it's not that carry on, carry on. Yes. Okay. Frank, I'm going to ask you, are you experiencing any psychosis symptoms at the moment in your life? You know, you know, there is something I also believe in spirit guides and yeah, I I've, I'm also a student of spirituality as well. You know, it, I, it, it is quite, you know, it's a common theme for schizophrenia X to have to go searching for these answers in religion and in spirit. I don't know. I think it's fantastic that we both have this both has a desire to me to know more. So. Yeah. I mean, personally, I've got my new spiritual view of schizophrenia. You have, you have your own spiritual view as well? I mean, what does it, I suppose for me, I sorta believe that the schizophrenic mind is attuned to spiritual phenomena. So like synchronicities, I believe that is because we're all connected in some way as a spirit. So what about your life now? Is it tough coping as a schizophrenic in New York? You know, do you have to, do you have to do things too to make sure that, you know, you don't make yourself vulnerable, you don't put yourself into a situation where you can be uncomfortable. I mean, tell me about that. Yeah. What is the system like in New York. Are you part of a mental health community? Is there like a drop in center. Do you mix with other mental health suffereres in New York? Do you want to talk about your drug use and how it relates to your mental health? That must have been quite a struggle in your life? Do you know that some people like Graham Hancock, he talks about how psychedelic drugs are actually part of our evolution, as a history of the human species and that things like Ahyuhasca actually helps us connect with spirit or even, even if you take in Marijuana, it can be a spiritual experience, even smoking in a way has its roots in a spirituality. If you look at the native Americans, there is that whole, the whole ethos is about drugs and spirituality. And you know, it, it kind of relates to schizophrenia as well because, because you know, really schizophrenics are attuned to the spiritual phenomenon. And also there is that link to Shaminism in the past as well. Okay. so you talked about the drugs and schizophrenia. Well, I mean, let's go back to the schizophrenia and what do you, do you have hope for the future? I mean, does it, because it can be, you know, it's a tough battle having this illness, you know, what keeps you going? What drives you is that, you know, is it the spirituality you come to New York, you know, so that you obviously quite a while you want to be there in the middle of the things you want to be in the center of things, you know? And so I think that your, your, probably the type of person who, you know, you want to be involved, you want to be there in the scene. I think Okay. So basically what I'm saying is, well, how did you see your future as you know, with schizophrenia? I mean, are you hopeful for the future? Yeah. I think they are. I think people, who do go through a lot of, I guess, mental or emotional pain do seek to help others after that. It's kind of like a, it's a journey I think, and it's not, it's not a question or as simple as saying, Oh yeah, anybody can look after people, you know, because a lot of people don't, a lot of people did not look off the people and there's a lot of people who are lonely and suffering. So yeah. I mean, that's, I feel that's great. I think that's fantastic. You know, that that's, I think of the same thing. I think the same thing sometimes. <garbled nonsense> Oh, okay. So why are you living in New York? Because, you know, I think you want to be a part of the scene, I get a sense if you don't want to miss out and things you want to be in the middle of the famous, right. I mean, what, what was the decision to move to New York? Okay. So what, what, in terms of the schizophrenia, how do you, I mean, yes, your, you got diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. How would you see yourself? How, how has your relationship with your family and your friends, how did that change? Did your friends change? Did your family treat you differently? Okay. Good. Well, that's good. Yeah. So, I mean, what, w what would, how would you say, I mean, we were talking about earlier, the schizophrenia has a quite bad image. I mean, what, how do you feel we can change the, you know, w what would you want to tell people listening to this? What do your Hello? Okay. Yeah. Okay. Frank why would you want to say, you know, 'cause like, it was like, what, what you want to tell people, listening to this? What, what schizophrenia so great, like, from your experience, what are you really like? Are you, you know, what You, how would you want to add to tell someone to understand how you feel? Are you on medication at the moment? If you are on an anti psychotics before, But these, these drugs are quite powerful. I mean, what was your experience? Did you experience side effects? You know, you, you know, you talk about spirituality and I, and I feel that it's a passion. I think that's a passion for you. And, you know, we can talk about it. And it's also a great passion for me as well. You know, I, I mean, for me, it was when my mom passed away and I was looking for answers and I read through spirituality and it also gave me an understanding of schizophrenia as well. And I think has given you an understanding of schizophrenia as well as the spiritual aspect. And it's interesting when we both came to that same conclusion, that in a way of spirituality kind of explains a lot of the mental phenomenon that you experienced as the schizophrenia. So definitely, I mean, you know, it's also, it's, you know, I, it was kind of like a, of a niche. It's an, it's a niche kind of almost a taboo topic in modern life. Isn't it? Yeah. Do you want to talk about any of the symptoms that you've experienced? Is that something you want to talk about ? Yeah. I mean, it kind of like, it can also be quite scary. Did you have some paranoid delusions as well with them? Oh yeah. Carry on. Carry on, carry on. Yeah. We're just about out of time. It was fantastic to speak to you, frank yeah.<inaudible> hello and welcome to another episode of interview with schizophrenia. I am your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I would like to welcome Ed from Tennessee. Hello, and welcome to the show. How you doing today? I'm doing great. How you doing? You know, I'm doing fine. Just enjoy the weekend. And, and I'm just watching a lot of the sports on the television, which has started again, you know, which just created for how things were for you in the coronavirus, Yeah. So if we're going to wear masks, but yeah, it is what it is. Okay, great. Let's let's start our discussion on schizophrenia. Why don't you tell me how it started for you, how you wear when you first became, you know, how you would buy it? Why did you tell me about that? I mean, that, that, that is a Yeah, that's a classic classic, isn't it? Because I'm so, so you started off with the voices. That was, that was the main thing for you when it all began Yeah Okay. So how old are you now? I'm 30. And what, what age was it when it started in 26, 27? Yeah. My memory is hazy. It was the same with me. My memory of when it started, it is hazy. I can't, I can't pinpoint it. I think, I think your mind, when you go through so many traumatic, like the onset of schizophrenia, I think your mind sort of blocks it out a little bit. So it's difficult to do, you know what I mean? It kind of blocks a lot of hours, so then you have, they don't have to consciously access or access those memories. I think, I think that's probably how it has a strong if he'd say, I mean, that's the main, so basic you were having kind of like a paranoid delusions when you, that you would be watched the waist as we're talking to you to be okay. Oh really? And I've had 10, just because of the, I'm sorry. Carry on. Carry on. Yeah. So you guys, you actually see the people as well. So when you do it, when they're having to tell him about my experiences, did you actually seen a person you in your mind or how does it work? Oh, I see it. Yeah. It was true. It was true, but that's kind of weird. Isn't that? 'cause, I'm, you know, I kind of believed something similar. I kind of believed that, you know, that I experienced psychic phenomemon and is kind of strange. Right. You have Jabil explanation. Okay. Do you think to get her home? I'm really? Yes, sir. Because I used to also thinking it might be something to do, you know, not yet television is one thing, but we will say that, you know, like internet Wi-Fi, satellite, cell phones, radio waves, what is an information passing about around are heads? You know, there's a lot of stuff out of that I may be, may be kind of, you could maybe kind of piggyback on the, on the waives or something or, you know what I mean? It is, you know what, man, I've kind of got a spiritual perspective as well, and I kind of think dreams or journeys into the Astro. And so, so when do you dream or not all the time, but some of the time your spirit will leave your body and that will explore the Astro gravels. That's kind of what I I believe. Okay. What, what would do you think Well Yeah. So you're talking about waves again, You know? So, I mean, I find it difficult to talk about it, by the way I've made video blogs. Well, I would say the voice is a three desks. Do you know what I mean? By finding it difficult to confront, you know, the suspect's and say, you know, are you, are you thinking about this sort of thing? I find that awkward, maybe, maybe, maybe that's the name of the Australian and American fingers more kind of, do you know what I mean? Yeah, Right in front of them. You know? Did you, did you, did you bring this up with your doctor? I said, what did I think about a 10 up for failure Well, I kind of think that over here as well, you know, people, you know, you do get S you think that people quantities walking, but most people just being schizophrenia. Oh yeah. That just, you know, that this is a bit crazy. They don't really understand that. You know, they don't really know that some people say, or one, you got to meditate, you know, Okay find meditation. Yeah. It's, it might be good at, but it's not schizophrenia. It's not going to do with schizophrenia. I'm you know, when, when you are hearing voices, I don't, I don't know. I don't know how to stop it. You know what I mean? It's a, you said something to me on the floor. And you said, if you tell your voices that you don't want to be telepathic, they stopped. Is that correct? Wow. So do you actually send them letters to your friends? Wow. So they kind of knew what they were doing. Okay. Okay. So yeah, I mean, you had not many people are kind of admit it about the telepathy side, but I'm kind of, I kind of think, and that's what it is. It has as it, do you ever received any information that was helpful? You know, have you received like something in your mind? And if so, yeah, that's pretty helpful. I can use that to go to hell all of my life. Has that ever happened? Okay, cool. So what did you do now at, are you on, when are you doing now, is your occupation and in your day-to-day life? Okay. Fine. So, so how did your family rec to you to be becoming ill going for a schizophrenia? Well, at first, at first you are caring. Go ahead. Go ahead. So I was going to say, how did your parents treat you? You know, when, when you are your parents or your, your wife are supportive, I think that that makes such a great deal of difference. You know, that that's probably one of the most important things in this, because you need, you meet someone and when you can just relax and you can say, you know, this is what I'm thinking, and you can talk about it candidly, without having to worry about being judged or being ostracized, you know, they say, so that's fantastic. And I'm wondering, what about your friends? You've only mentioned that some of your friend's with schizophrenia, like what did you have wet school friends. And when did they treat you differently? Once he, once he just wants it all started. Okay. So are you involved and kind of peer support, you know? Voices. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you'll talk to you and things like drinking. What about drinking beer? Is that okay? Or, Yeah. I mean, cause I kind of drink bear. I started having like a cigar once a day. Mmm. That's pretty much it as, as you know, as bad choices I guess, but are you talking more about sort of drugs and hard drugs and stuff like that? I think, I think that you might be off or you want to be on to something or do you want us to, if you are, because you have your own kind of theory and it, the, at the end of the day you are basically, you're promoting a healthy lifestyle. You are promoting healthy relationships with honest communication, you know, he said that that's all, that's all good stuff, man. That has to be on a severe. So CSS, tell me more about 'em. What kind of things do you do, you know, like during the Bay to kind of look, to relax your mind to, I mean, 'cause a lot people like, like I had listened to the music, you know, is there anything that you like to do to kind of like a, like a good habit, like a good, good habits. Oh, let's not. Do you, are you saying so when you, you told me you were living in the States, so is it a, is it kind of a countryside surroundings where you are, so when you walked the town, you kind of walk it into the country. That's awesome. That's awesome. Awesome. 'cause I think, I think, I think being with nature is that also a very beneficial, extremely beneficial to your well-being as whole, as a whole, I think. Absolutely. Okay. That's fantastic. So, so what are your hopes for the future? I mean, because I think you are doing well now, so what, what are your kind of just so you only for 30, so what, what did you see? W would you say, what did you see the rest of your life? Well, that's fantastic. I mean, to be fantastic if you could join them up again as well. That's excellent. Yeah, You know, I didn't know. I don't know if I don't really trying to think about and the reason why, but I kind of, I kind of, I'm kind of spiritual. So I think that if we have to go through this, we will be strong enough to cope. You know, if we have to badness bourbon, we will have the gifts to be able to overcome it. You know, that's, that's kind of hard in my belief, you know? So I would say so. So you kind of liked doing peer support, you know, and I liked to laugh because obviously on the forum you are supporting of people, you know, we, you see each other and to follow him in your sport, people are supporting people. I think that's the shared, the shared passion we both have, because that is also something kind of with my life. I quite like to do that as well to do peer support. I think, I feel like it's important. You know, it's different strokes, man. Different strikes. That's did you, have you experienced any discrimination or stigma? Okay. Yeah. You know, that's a pretty, it's a big difference between America and England. I think that, I think you are a lot that you speak more in America. Like in England, we don't speak so much as, as much as we should, you know, because like, you know, you're speaking about this sort of thing. Whereas in this country, people wouldn't like to talk about it. That would be like, you know, they don't want to talk about it. Do you know what I mean? I think that, yeah, it's kind of, they don't want to admit to that side of life so that they just want to talk about it. Have you ever experienced anybody bullying you and as everybody, you don't have you experienced being bullied? You know, if somebody's bring in a meal okay. Okay. Cool. Cool. Okay. Fine. I think one last question. Is there anything that I'm like, you want to say that I have not asked you yet? Is there anything you want to say? I mean, anything extra that you wanna tell me? Okay. An accident. This accident actually happened to me. And I am going to try not to live with it. And they took a different approach. Their voices would be so much better. Okay. That's great, man. Thank you very much. Okay. And just want us to do and what type of music you like? I like to start to set a lot. Okay. We're kind of genre. Is that, is that like dance music of all it, but it wasn't me. I it's, I let you listen to it the other day I sent you a copy to links. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, cool. So thank you very much for speaking with me. Absolutely pleasure. I think, I think, you know, you got quite a unique perspective and you know, and I think, I think when you say makes the hand of last sentence as well, you know, my finger, you've got a good message, which you and I, and I hope this, this platform will also educate people as well, you know? Cause that's, that's, that's the important thing. Yeah. Thank you for your time and I'd be happy. Hello, and welcome to another episode of 'Interview with a schizophrenic. I am your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I have the great pleasure of having Jen with me. She is from Michigan in the United States of America. She's in her early thirties and has a diagnosis of Schizoaffective disorder, depressive type, as well as anxiety. So hello Jen, welcome to the show. How are you doing today? Well, it's absolutely my pleasure. So Jen what I want to ask, talk about is, I would like if you could give the listeners an understanding of how your mental health journey began, how you got your diagnosis, did you go into hospital? So if you'd like to talk about that, that'd be fantastic. Well, it's a tough one. You, you saw things when you were a child. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. I mean it does, obviously when you, when you have a diagnosis, that's not the only thing. It does link him because I also has a child. I would say when I got to about the age of 15 or 16, my mind was full of chatter. And it's only looking back now that I think it was a cumulation of hearing voices, which I've never really understood as a child. So I think, I think when you get older, you look back and you think you can recognize what was happening. So yeah, that's a kind of a scary, Yeah. I, I I've, I've been there as well when I was in my twenties. I mean, you know, that's kind of, I heard some people say they got diagnosed when they were like 17 more people get diagnosed in their twenties. There are some people who get diagnosed in their late thirties, but you know, it's a, I guess it, I guess probably is probably slightly late. I mean, you're probably suffering for quite a long time without being treated. How, how, how is, how was the treatment for you? Did it, was it effective? Okay, fine. I mean, it's not an easy thing. What your game through, you know, is a, is a severe condition. So you're always going to have ups and downs. There's always going to be times in your life where it's going to be difficult because it is a battle. So I don't think that's a shame if you do. You know what I mean? It's a battle, it's a daily battle. So sometimes you win sometimes because difficult, you know, that's, that's what I would say. So I, Y w when you said something interesting to me, the idea was, what is your occupation? I also work in Lightsey. I found the interesting. So did you, did you work, did you work, did you have a break in your career? Did you kind of working since? The kind of environment in 20 and 20, you know, 2010 on with the wedding, even in a lot last 20 years, it's kind of, it shouldn't be that, you know, we've, we've, we've, you know what I mean? It's just with the rest of the opposite of the right to, to, to, to object that I also say the occupation of it is office-based. So sometimes it can be toxic, but so I guess, you know, sometimes, sometimes what I find is the people work in it. They're not as they might not understand people as well as other people do. Yeah. So that's interesting you work in, I'd say, so you've got a kind of a logical brain, I guess. Yes, definitely. I definitely, I think, I think the logic helps. If you have, if you're in a delusion, you can call it a logic, your way out of it, you can say, well, you know, I think there's bugs in my bedroom, but where exactly are they, you know, you can w you know, where's, where's the power supplies that are they being transmitted out to a vibe. I mean, you can, you can kind of work out, holds in the, in the delusion, which I think can help as well. So tell me, Jen you said that you're hearing voices. What sort of voices do you hear? Yeah. The voices, voices are not true, you know, generally 90% of the time they are negative and just, and just nasty little things. So yeah, that, that's just the way they are. They say w Y I mean, what do you, do you think the voices are hallucinations and bats all it is, or do you think of something more to it? In a way. It's like, if I could translation of your, of your fears and negative anxieties into voices, if you know what I mean, it's like a, it's a, it's like, it's like what you're feeling in your most anxious and you're in a negative way. And then that's translated and the voices which you can hear. Yeah. I mean, yeah, it's not, I, I can, obviously, it's not a nice thing to experience and I kind of said it before, but when the worst thing about the voices is that you can explain, you can, you can tell someone, but you can't, they can't experience it when they can't experience what you're going through. So, yeah. That's okay. Do you enjoy reading books? Jen And not something that the reason I ask is a few, a few reasons. One thing, sometimes I know that people with psychotic diagnosis find it difficult to read long periods of text, but sometimes I, but there are times when you can read and it also can be very helpful. You can read books about your illness or books about, you know, about topics, which can help you, I think, or chess fiction, but just for escapism. So I know, and also these days, like you say RPGs, because we have so many, there's so many different types of entertainment that books have gets all relegated to the dusty old bookshelf in the corner and, and I'm not used at all. Yes. I guess I, Bobby, you know, I like something like, like before, when I was younger, I had zero insight into, into my diagnosis, but when I read books on it, I think that helped me to give me the insight to give me a understanding of what the condition is. And, you know, it's like a comfort and you, you realize that, okay. There's reasons for what I'm feeling, you know? So I think that's a good thing. Yeah. I mean, I, I saw ask another question. Do you have any favorite films that portray mental illness? Okay. Is that easier? <inaudible> medication. So do you, so are you hearing voices like today and now let's say a daily occurrence happening to you? Like every day it is daily. Okay. What I was going to say is, I don't know if you've heard about this, but they did a study on people hearing voices, voices. So in America and the Western Europe that were all quite hostile and they're all quiet, the quite negative, the quite oppressive, but they did also have the study of voices in the East, like in the, in countries, in Asia. And they found that it was, the voices were less harsh. They were less negative and more kind of softer. And, and a fairy is, is that your voices are localized to where you live. And in India, when a country is more spiritual, they have a more spiritual understanding of, of psychosis. And so therefore there's not such a, a, a fair about it. So I think that more people would talk it's a more accepted in like, not, maybe not in the establishment, in the upper, in the general, the common people, I would say where, whereas obviously in Western European, America, things, things a different way, we're kind of much more consumer corporate capitalist culture where, where we don't accept the spirituality. It's not, it's, it's a fringe subject. It's not really, it's not really something that is in the mainstream. So if we experience something that is out of the normal spectrum, we just get I ostracized and stigmatized by that. What do you think that is? What you think about that? Yeah. And also I think, you know, there's more to schizophrenia, Schizoaffective, the myths. It's not just my opinion is not just a, a medical disorder. I think there's more to it than that. I think there's more of a, perhaps a spiritual aspect to it. I don't know if you think about that. You'll have the answer by next week. I don't know how the brain works. The kind of like it processes things in the background and then Okay. What I want to ask you, have you experienced discrimination? Okay. My final question is with, is there anything you would like to talk about, which I have not asked already? Something which you'd like to bring up and just, you know, like to say to the listeners it's is there anything like that, You know? I mean, like I say, internet is, is the best thing out there. You can contact people from all around the world with all different types of experiences, you know, they can, if a younger person, they can contact me or a phone, they can call me a call from this podcast, you know, and I'll speak to them, you know, or they can, you know, that's, there's forums on the internet, mental health forums, where you can speak to people that is Yeah. I mean the, in Reddit, there's lots of, there's lots of humanities, like you say, and, you know, I mean, there's also a, in the UK, we have, we have various help points. Like we have the Samaritans and we also have Childline as well. So Charlyne is a, is a support line for children in trouble. I'm not sure if there's one in America like that, but you know, fingerprints or that is that's important for the kids to, and, and, and it's not like, yeah, I think, you know, kids, kids are very, they're very, what's the word that kind of, they can take a lot of punishment and still be okay. I think, but it doesn't mean they have to, and, you know, any strange experiences. I think, I think like some tech talk, I follow a person who's got mental health issues and that, you know, like they're like a 16, 17, and they just express themselves a few Music. And, and as such great thing to do is to express yourself for your Music for your, for your clothes or your hair styles, and just to get your emotions out. And I think that's so important, you know, because that's kind of, it's kind of like an emotional oppression. If you're, if you're feeling that way, when you're a child, I think that's the most support thing today, you know, just to, you know, and, and it's not all doom and gloom. There's a lot of positivity out there and it's just about kind of moving into the right direction, I think. Hey, it's definitely, I th I, you know, internet is wonderful in many ways for, for people with mental health conditions, we really can have a voice, you know, with which we didn't say 20, 30 years ago, we didn't have that voice. That's fantastic. I got a job. Let's wrap it up here. I just want to ask you, is there any quick, the type of music that you prefer a, a Joan rhe or a particular type of song, is that okay? That's excellent. That's like, okay, I'll see what I can do. I'll see what I can do. I can see if I can find some Jaguar and played at the end so that, so it's been a real pleasure to speak to a feature. Really a nice talk with, I hope you enjoyed being interviewed by me and hopefully we'll speak again. I do say I do have plans to try and bring people back in the next year or so, and maybe the top of some sort of a one-on-one or group discussions about Hello, and welcome to another episode of interview with schizophrenia. I'm your host on consignment center. And today I have the great pleasure of having Johnny with me. He is from Norway is 46 years old. He's being schizophrenic for 15 years. So welcome to the show, Johnny, how you doing today? Okay. That's great. So Johnny, why I want to ask you, if you would give us a bit of a history of how your mental health journey began, what were your symptoms? Well, I, if anything such exists as it, I hope it will get shut down because it's not, it's gone no place in modern society. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So if such a thing exists, I think it should be shut down. Yeah. I can turn on the music. Opera. Okay. So opera. Okay. Fine. Okay. Joey, absolute pleasure to talk with you. You know, really enjoyed it. I hope it was okay for you as well. I just, just want to say thank you for talking with me. Thank you very much. My pleasure. You very much. Okay. Bye-bye <inaudible> <inaudible>.Hi, this is episode two of Interview with a schizophrenic. I have Amin with me. He lives in Germany. He was a refugee from Syria. He is twenty-two years old and he has a schizophrenia diagnosis. Hello? How are you? That's absolutely fine. Sprechen ein bisschen Deutsche but I do not know any Arabic So I just, I just thought. You are a refugee from Syria. That was quite interesting. If you would like to talk about what happened to you. What happened over there? So what about, what about your family. Were you living with your family at the time? Yeah. So did you all go to Germany or did you get separated? Okay. Where are you married? Do you have children? I'll see you in the rack when ISIS would control it and rack up. Is that correct? That is, We hear all the news. When you see him, he is about the internet. Cause they talk about, I am in this country. That is one of the coolest is for schizophrenia is trauma. So if you aren't living in a war, a war torn country, and you're refugee, you want to go through some serious trauma so I can understand it. I know, I know it was. So I would say, and maybe you're predisposed because you have to have that pre this position for the illness. And if you have the trauma as well, it can trigger it. I think. Yeah. I mean, if you want us to, for you, I mean, this is one of the way he went for a week is absolutely her in the us. I mean, how was the life in Germany and deep down people trip? Did you feel that you would treat it as well? I mean, you know, in my, Do you have a sound when you were diagnosed with schizophrenia? When, when did that happen? Okay. So you said you, that you feel, you worry. Did you ever worry about your own safety? I mean, from what you went from the fear of death, so that was ever present. I would think that would be, I mean, I take a long time to get over it. It doesn't have to be honest with you. I mean, do you, do you feel if you know, like, I mean, how did you feel now? Was it, was it like an intense paranoia? What, what were your symptoms and lost it again? Okay. And you're still quite young actually. And the schizophrenia have a few of you, if you really have the schizophrenia, it could, it could come and go again. I mean, but it depends some people to have a couple of episodic and then it is a bit okay. Oh, well the case, I dunno, I'm not a doctor. I'm like, you know, I think you want to have a dream delusions, right. In a different reality. Yeah. It is. That's like a severe symptoms of schizophrenia, My injection, put it to me as if he stopped her meds, then you can get relapsed as well. That's, that's the thing. So you've called them in a way, because you know that this happened to you like two, three years ago, what you got to keep taking your meds and then you got to keep taking your meds when you stabilize. And when you lower the dosage in the dosage and when you come off of it slowly, that's why would say to you, you know, and you know, I mean, I mean, or what medication are you, are you on in the moment? Nah, I know. I thought if, I don't know, that's not for me to judge that you were diagnosed by for doctors, that's it? You go to schizophrenia and you're on medication. Well, I'm saying it is right. If you want to start taking your meds, you call it, you call them to stop taking your meds complete. You know, you've called us to talk to us, but I'm, I'm going to stop your meds. I'm just saying, you know, if you want, when you caught them that it can cause, cause the wrong guy. Yeah. So Germany you do you sit down? Okay. Okay. And so what, what did you, how did you see your future? Because for you is difficult because you're a refugee. So like is already that much more difficult and then you've got to deal with schizophrenia as well. I mean, how, how did you feel? Did you, did you feel hopeful for the future? Cause I got to go work in now, which is, you know, which is great because a lot of people are struggling with time. Yeah. So that, that was good, man. I think, you know, that sounds fantastic. And to be honest with you, I think working, you know, if he could work, that is absolutely, it does wonders for your own, you know, for everything because you have the money that you feel more hurtful you for all the time. So I think, you know, I think that's great. So yeah. I mean, yeah. I mean, do you have any symptoms as well So, and you know, I think 'cause when you went for it or Syria refugee, I feel I experience, you know, whenever you learn now, I know I failed, even though it was a horrific at the time is actually a very valuable experience in life, but you've gone for you, something that many people would never go for it. And I think that that would give you, you know, you, you know, perhaps if you could help people, you don't know what it's like, you know, it's, that could be something that you could do. I mean, you know, because we called it like I live in North, I live in London and you know, I've never gone to see something like that. Yeah. And so I don't really know to me, it's like, I just say it all in the news. It's not, it's not to me is almost not real, but you have actually gone through it, you know, it's your life. So I think that, I mean, to me, that's like a, that's like a, a massive thing. I think, you know, I mean, I think that that's such a, such a you experience to go to the cruise. What you do in your apprenticeship, Do you want me to sleep? You want, okay, fine. I'm just wondering in the future. Do you want to do, but you know, I think to me, because if I had such a valuable experience of life, I mean, you may not think of it. I think it went for his such a value, but it is such a valuable experience because you you've really seen that, that dark side of life, you know? And I forget, and I think when you get older and you become more settled, I think you'll, you'll you reflect and that we'll give you a great insights into life. I think high. Okay. I think I pick them out of salt because we are having some good. I was just, I just want to decide that I just wanted to, to tell you that you had a really valuable experience. And I think, I think that in terms of life experiences, I think it's a great, valuable, you know, it, and I forget to give you a great insight and to, you know, as I got older, I think Matt inside it was coming out of view and you would like to think it would be, you know, it's such as a valuable experience. Okay. Now this is why a, to B to be honest for, for you and you know it. So I just want him to you, you know, you go to the schizophrenia side, it is, is one aspect. And I think you are doing very well with your coping well, but you know, w when you went for a sec, I think it is such a valuable experience. You know, you can, you can do great things. I think you've got to be hopeful and positive. That's why I wanted to tell you. And I'm so glad that you join me for this interview. You know, that, because I, I just think that it's so great to speak to someone, your hair and my thing, you know, in terms of a global events, you, what you've gone through, his, his his message and say, I just want you to be hopeful. And, and to feel that, you know, you're in a way, you're your best. And I would, I would say as well, you know what I mean? So I just want to, I want to say it out. Yeah. I'm telling you, you went for it. Some valuable that's the thing is the third is always in the side, you know, he said you got to go to, I think, I think it is like a seat. So you can see this, like a girl, like a flower, I think. So you don't know. Do you have like an artistic side to me? Would you like to take like photography or like art? You know, I think that's a really good way of expressing, you know, expressing yourself. Yeah. So you don't, you said you have to go, you have a lot of friends from the love of music. Okay. Let's, let's see, let's wrap this up. We've had to problems with the connection, you know, when it was great time for me to speak to your old man, you know, I think it is a privilege for me to be honest with you, because I've never spoke to anyone that's going for the experience that you have going for it. I think, you know, you know, your customers and you just pull that you got to believe in life and you got to keep hopeful. I think that you could accomplish what you want to dream before. If you want to say a few minutes, I'll just say it, right? Yeah. No, you didn't want me to say, okay, let's call it a wrap. Thank you very much for coming and speaking to me today. And it was a pleasure for me. Hello, welcome to another episode of Interview with a schizophrenic. I'm your host. Duncan I'm a singer. And today I had the great pleasure of having Paul with me. He lives in Alberta, in Canada. Paul welcome to the show. How are you doing this evening? That's my pleasure in that. So I, I, I just wanted to ask him what's the COVID situation. Like if you, Okay. So what you do is I'll ask you how your mental health journey began. So if you like to talk about that, we might be going back a few years. How did you guys, the hospital, did you, what would your symptoms, how did you get the diagnosis? If you like to talk about that? That would be fantastic. Okay. So w w when was this white for you? But yeah, it was about 18, 18, Okay So you got to talk to me is when you were pretty young, then when you're 18, 19 Yeah okay. So, I mean, you are fasting because you are paranoid, you had to, you're going for a delusion. So you said you felt that before you were a prophet, so, you know, you are, that was that's what you told the doctors, you know, that it was, that, that was what, what was going on, right? And then, you know, I mean, when I look back at my own history, you know, I've done some pretty strange things as well, because I believed that I was suppose to do them is that I've had religious delusions as well, where I think I've been hearing the hearing, God, the devil, that sort of thing. It's, it's really scary and kind of, you're just trying to have to just get for it. And it was, but yeah, I mean, well, yeah, go on. Yeah. I think that's probably, I think the fact that you were not eating yeah. That would have ran a big alarm bells, you know, it at the hospital, there would be like, well, you know, this is, it's not just mental. This is like a life-threatening here. So we we've got to do something pretty quick, you know? And so I think that probably gave you a, gave the doctor is a sense of urgency, I would say so. And so what happened after I had him, did you say in the hospital and what was that like? Oh, it was a hose on it Okay. Would you, would you say this, it was, this was one persistent, a paranoid delusion that you were having, you know what I mean? Because it seems to me that some, some people are schizophrenia have multiple delusions and some have one prominent powerful Germolene So you said, did you end up in that facility then? Or no. Well, you will be suicidal. Or did you just, just didn't want to want to eat? Or was it, was it suicidal as well or You know, I think it's quite a significant percentage of a schizophrenia. Patients do attempt suicide in some manner. I think it's like I was, I, I was watching on YouTube. I was watching an interview of a schizophrenia page or from the 1960s. Yeah. And, and then I read it in the comments or seemingly this, you know, it's nice young man. And seeing this man, he committed suicide a few years when it just happens quite a lot, that there was this, the amount of despair and hopelessness. And you know, you just, you just look for something outside of life to, to help you Would you say it was worse because like, people didn't know that the paps, you want to talk about it and they weren't. So what, what, so your first, you know, now what age, where you, when, when this was kind of going on. Okay. So what, what was, I want to hear about how you got to a better place. So you're about 30. What, what, what happened? What, what would, what helped you and you tell us about that process? Okay. Okay. So when did you find that you are alienated by your friends and family during your, during your twenties too? When it was chronic, but I think I've got the impression that you wanted a solid shade. So, so just kind of moving to the present day. Do you still have symptoms? What are you going through now? How is your life? I mean, what, what are the things that for you, if you like in 2020? That's awesome. It's an ultimate recovery story, man. That's so you know what, I'm so happy for you, you man, you also do a YouTube channel of what you produce the blogs. When you talk about that, And I know, you know, it's so important to, you know, I'm a few years older than you, but I figured, I think it's important for those of us who've gone through the chronic phase. You know, what kind of coming out of the other side, just to share our stories so that the youngsters, the, you know, the who, who just did it with this sort of a, for the first time that our lives, you know, they got something to say, here's someone who's gone through it and they don't feel so alone because the thing about schizophrenia, I think is that if you don't have not part of the community, you can just feel as if you're the only one in the world this is happening to, and that actually makes the symptoms worse because you just find the same thing happening to me. But if somebody else, if you had someone else was going through similar stuff, well actually yes. You know, do you know what I mean? And it's a big difference, Yeah. Okay. Well, I think I feel that we can wrap it up that would you like to give the name of a YouTube channel? What I'll do is I put a link in the, in the description of there is a podcast. So what would you like to take it to the name of the channel? More than I did nine above and beyond schizophrenia. Okay, cool. So what, do you have any particular preference of any music? No, not really. I don't really listen to much music or electronic, you know, that it was, it was real Patrick, too. Hello, welcome to another episode of interview credit. They have the great pleasure of having Eric with me from United States of America. He is 32 years old and he's a diagnosis Schizoaffective bipolar type. So welcome Eric, how you doing today? Yeah, that's great, man. So what is my first question is always the same. Eric. I want you to give us a history of your mental health journey. What were your first symptoms? How did you get diagnosed? Did you go into hospital? Did you, how were your doctors that sorta affect us to get a feel for, for yourself and how your journey began? Fine. So Yeah. That's good advice, man. You don't often hear that perspective, but yeah, that is, that takes a heck of strength of character, I think, to be able to do that. Okay. Sorry. The final question is what type of music do you like? What kind of drawn where, Okay. Okay. Well, that's fine. I just want to say thank you for speaking with me and to speaking to our listeners and just helping to get the knowledge out there, that awareness education of Schizoaffective and schizophrenia, you know, these conditions, you know, I just, I just want to say thank you, man. Talk to you. <inaudible>.Welcome to another episode. I'm your host today? I have the great pleasure of having Zach. Zach is 26 from London. He has a Schizoaffective diagnosis and he also has some other conditions as well. So welcome to the show. How are you doing today? How, how have you been coping with the COVID? It's almost ending now. Isn't it I think, I mean, I kind of consider it that it's kind of finished now. I don't wear mask anymore and I kind of consider it it's over, but I know it's not, I know the official line is that it's not, but It's more comfortable. Okay, Zach, let's start. So the first question I ask is always the same and I don't think any needs to be changed. I want you to tell me about how your mental health journey began. What, how old were you, what were your first symptoms? How you got into the system, how you dealt with hospitals and doctors, you know, how it impacted your life. You'd just like to talk about that and, you know, whenever you need to take a break, take a break and I might ask some questions. It's just up to you to go into as much detail as you want. Brilliant. I think, you know, your story what's happened to you up until that point. I think it, I finished shows how much you had to go through how much trauma you had to go through just related to the, to your mental health condition. You know, the real life trauma that happened as a result of being a young man, a vulnerable young man in the system. You know, there's so much extra stuff you have to deal with. I mean, I, I was in hospital back around the turn of the century, the turn of the millennium. So it's a long time ago now over 20 years ago. And it was, it was different back then. It was a bit more free and open. We had a smoking room, you know, we had boards, I think there were a single-sex wards. You know, if you wanted to charge the phone, I could charge it whenever I wanted to. You know, it was different rules back then. But I do remember there were people screaming, there were people being violent. And I w I was, you know, probably around the same age as you and I w I would just ignore it or go to the TV room. You know what I mean? Because that's what it's kind of frightening. It's frightening at that age, when you're dealing with a serious psychotic condition and people acting in such a disturbing way, you know, you say, I, I do recall that now, looking back, I remember people screaming at night in the corridors and yeah. All sorts of things going on. I was in the home treatment team about eight years ago. And I'm wonder traps would talk to me and say, he was, he was saying exactly the same thing. Yes, I, oh yeah, I got over this in my life. And I'm thinking, you know, it's not the same thing as it, you know, because you know, when you're dealing with psychosis, I think also, especially when you're so young and you're dealing with psychosis, it's, it's very challenging. And I think it takes time to build up your insights, your understanding of the illness. Definitely you can combat the symptoms with your right insight and it takes a while for that. And even when you've got that, it's still, it's still difficult. I know schizophrenia is one and a hundred, so Schizoaffective is where it in schizophrenia. So it will be less than that. It is, you know, it's, it's rare. But when you add up the numbers for the population of the UK, for example, we are talking hundreds of thousands here. So there are, there are a lot of folk who have this, we go through psychosis. So it's, it's, you know, I kind of think it should be dealt with better, you know, because I think, cause I went to, I went to visit a friend in, in a mental health ward a few years ago, and now it's like a high, high secure prison. It's Chinese, Chinese. It's more about keeping things safe and locked down. Whereas, you know, it's a heavy handed approach, I suppose, you know, Well, you know, I think the mental health staff who work in these wards, I think they go a little crazy. Do you think so? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. And they're probably afraid, you know, they're probably afraid cause they don't understand the condition they are afraid of, of, of the unpredictability of it. So they're not sure what to expect. So I suppose they're kind of shut down, but yeah, I, I, I genuinely feel that everything it's always the case when I go to, as a service use it always, it's always so disorganized and it's as if they're not thinking clearly, you know, the, the staff, I think, I think they, they pick up a little bit of craziness from what, from us, Yeah. I mean, that probably isn't the reason, but it will be, it'll be something which would not have helped. You're not, you know, something mathematically, which is kind of reassuring. The statistics stayed pretty much the same. So the statistics of how many people become ill with schizophrenia and Schizoaffective are pretty constant. So it does look that that is mostly just predetermined, you know, and obviously light events in life can trigger it. They can trigger it maybe earlier or trigger it at all. So you're basically events in your life. It will trigger the onset. I think, I think that's the same for all of us because we've all had some sort of trauma, but other, other people have trauma as well. And they're fine. You know, I think we're just, we just have it. It's predestined maybe in our genes or something that makes it, makes it come to the surface. Really. Yeah. I mean, it's strange that it's sort of, you know, I don't have the statistics, but this is what I've read. I'm sure I've read that it's mathematically quite constant that it always remains one in a hundred. So something to investigate, you know, Yeah. The artist is what I grad. So, but anyways, I think we're coming up to time now. I think you had quite a lot to say, and I didn't ask many questions, but I I've, I've said this to a few guests, you know, you're, you're welcome to come back for a second episode, you know, because I think it's good to, to talk about this sort of thing. Obviously you've got a lot to say, which is, which is great. So you're welcome to come back for another episode. I'm good. I hope to do that. I hope to start inviting people back for more episodes so they can continue that story. I think, you know what you have to say. It's very interesting because I really, what really strikes home with me is that, you know, when you have a serious mental condition, like what you have relationships with, difficult family, law effects, family, life expects relationships affects your work. And then when you're in hospital, it affects your relationships inside there. If that's a whole life and then you're dealing with the symptoms on top of that as well, when you're alone, when you're alone and you've got the Sims at the top of that, yeah, it's a lot to deal with. And it's just such a, it's such a bad way that we, when we find there's a stigma that we can't talk about it in normal life. You know, if we talk about it a normal life, we're kind of shut down. And, and the media portrays people with psychosis as kind of killers. It's always like, yeah, the guy was diagnosed with schizophrenia and he killed someone, you know, that's the minority. And they do that. Most of us are, you know, quite peaceful and fought for. Yeah. The other thing is that, you know, sometimes we can blame ourselves. We can attack ourselves and we kind of, and that kinds of forces us back into our shell. You know, when actually we are dealing with something that is quite tough. And I think the general consensus of mental health for all mental health conditions is that talking about it is the best way to deal with it. And we just, we just got to keep on talking about expressing ourselves, you know, because that, that's the, that's the most healthy way of dealing with that. Oh, probably also afraid. You know, it's also when you're, when you're in your early twenties, you know, men like to be, provato be strong, you know? And when somebody has a condition, which makes them vulnerable, this can be threatening to them. It can be actually threatened them. I think, I think we're going to wrap it up here. Is that quite, I want to ask you is I'm going to tack some music onto this episode. So I would like you to tell me what kind of John of music you would like me to add to this episode? What Tell me like you can, you can tell me a song now or tell me you're drawn with that. You like, yeah. I can't actually play that exact track. You The police will come for me. I can't do it. Let me just choose something. Maybe kind of something singer song, greatest type H music. Okay. So let, let me, let me have a look, you know, it's just been a pleasure talking to you, you know, you know, and, and I think you've got a lot to say, and that's interesting because I also have a lot to say, and I think people who go through these experiences have a lot to say, and we've, we've got, we've got to do that. We've got to speak. And you know, you're extremely welcome to come back for another episode and we can talk about it more. I just, yeah. I I'll have to sort that out. Okay. Thanks Zack. Absolute purchase. Speak with you. I think we can end it now. So that was Zach telling his story of his Schizoaffective and his ADHD and his PTSD and his BPT journey as a young man going through the school system, I think is extremely worthwhile contributions.Hello, welcome. I'm your host today? I have a great Petro, Victoria. Victoria is 45 years old and it's from Tennessee in the United States of America. So welcome to the show, Victoria, how are you doing today? Yeah, that's great. You know, I figured it takes a lot of guts to appear on camera to talk about this illness. So props to you. Yeah. That's, you know, it's, it's just great. Really. I'm just, I'm just, I'm totally, you know, happy to speak to a few today. So Victoria, why want to ask you the first question? Could you give us a brief background of your, your mental health difficulties? If we go back to the beginning, what were your first symptoms and how, how it changed the schizophrenia? You know, how your psychosis began like to talk about that? I'll be fantastic. What it I think it's opinion. It's I think it's great. I just think it's great that you have kids, you know, I mean, that's a, that must be a real blessing for you. No, you know, Victoria, I think with you, you just power through, like, you've had your family, you had your kids, and then, you know, it's going to happen that you have these sorts of crushes and dramas. Do you know what I mean? It's like the mental illness is there in the background and it's making things 10 times worse, but your, you know, you're busy with life. I think, you know, I mean, that's the impression I get with you, you know? No, Victoria, I was just going to say that schizophrenia delusions are sometimes terrifying, but I can also be like what you experienced, you can experience elation and euphoria. And sometimes I can relate to what you're talking about in the spiritual sense as well. You know, I think that is, that's a part of it. A lot of people with schizophrenia go through a spiritual crisis or feel closer to God, you know, because it is such a tough journey. And, and I think it's just part of it, you know, the spiritual side, you know, and, and I think, you know, that's just fantastic. You know, I was, I was going to say something else. I'm going to say, I can't remember now, but anyway, kind of carry on with what you're saying. I just want to say to like, what you're describing that to me is psychosis. And I believe that psychosis is a localized event. What I mean by that is it's not just your, your yourself, it also, your local environment is in tune with refute. And that's why we experienced so many synchronicities. So many things that the reality seems to be strange it's because psychosis, I believe is a local event, you know? So that makes total sense, you know, because at the end of the day, we're all made of the same matter long way. I'm all connected by spirit. So it does make sense, you know, when you think about it, I mean, so many people say that they go through like a, like what you're talking about, sensory overload and everything is connected in the local environment. That just makes me believe that this is the case, you know, Victoria effect. I think we probably got to take a wrap now. We'll just, we'll go back one at a time, but you know, you've made some great points. I think you've got a, you've got a lovely life with your family and you've gone through a hell of a lot with the, with the mental illness, you know, sort of fight it's that ongoing battle. And it just just shows you what a tough battle it is. And I just want one year to keep fighting and just keep going, because you know, you're an inspiration and I figured doing really well. And I'm just like, so, so grateful that your, you told your story today, you know, it was a real pleasure. That's absolutely fine. Okay. That's why, why I want to ask you is what type of music do you like? I always add some music on the, on the episode that, you know, any, any particular type that you like, So welcome to episode three of Interview with a schizophrenic. Today, I have Don with me. He is from Kathleen in Georgia. Hello Don, how are you doing? So So don't tell me how, what was the origin of your mental health problems? You know, what were you diagnosed Schizophrenia straight away or did you have of the conditions diagnosed? First of all, what happened at the beginning? If you'd like to tell us? Do you think it was in part due to some trauma you had when you in the army? Well, I mean, you know, I think certain people are predisposed to the condition. So yeah. I mean, you know, is it the statistically and it remains the same for our history. There's always one of the a hundred people around this figure have a schizophrenia. So the statistics staying the same, so, yeah. So, so how old were you when you diagnosed? Late. So what did you do when you w what did you do when you're talking about it? I mean, cause did you work, did you, did you have a job for you? What, what was your, what would you, like? You say you had a weight from it? Yeah. Okay. Fine. So say I was gonna say, Mmm. Yeah. So what we tell me about that you want to say, you sound very well. You sound, every time you sound a clear head, you know, you sound very well now. Yeah. So you've gone on obviously for a cover and having, you know, So are you, or are you affected today or do you, do you still have symptoms? Are you yeah. Is it something that's ongoing for you? So you got to find that you got a wife, you have a young child. I think that gives you a strong, might've been the reason to, to do well in life. You have to say the positive side. I mean, I think that was great because if that's, you know, when you have a Schizophrenia, sometimes you can just fall down in the cracks, but you know, if you've got a, a, a strong motivation there and then, you know, Yeah, man, that's, that's strong stuff, man. I got to say, so I got what I want to talk to them. Like, why don't we talk about some of your delusions may be, have you got any stories to tell about that? Oh, okay. You told me in an email that you had some funny, scary stories. Oh yeah. So I mean like a, you know, for people who are in a paranoid delusion is when you have a psychotic break from reality, when you disappear into a normal world, usually you are, and it could be very frightening and you can believe things, witch not happening. And, and it's as easy as a person with schizophrenia. It absolutely feels well and it can be terrifying. So what, what sort of things have you can give me, you know, give me a, a scary one, man. You know, Yeah. I've, I've actually, in my past, I actually used to put the key when I used to go to sleep. I used to put the key in the front door and turn a quarter so that nobody is, cause I used to pick people would unlock my door from the outside. Yeah. I think I can, I could see where you're coming from there. So when was the last time you had a severe delusion? Yeah. You know, I'm just talking about the hospital. What is the medical situation in life? And with that because I'm in London and if you get sick in London and it is very difficult to be admitted to hospital or what is, you know, in, in, in Kathleen what, you know, when you, when you need it to go to a place, to a shelter, into a hospital, this is the have medical care. You know, what, what was your process like? I mean, Do you do, how do you feel about other people's perception of your illness? I mean, what to me about that? You know, w what is your experiences? Yeah. But, you know, I, I know in the paper or if they have a, we see, I don't know if you remember that I'm this perfect can no way. He was supposed to have been a partner of Schizophrenia and he went, you know, to kill everybody. Occasionally when the news say it about once every two, three months, they'll be a story about Schizophrenia, he's killed alerted people. Oh, it's kind of like a, because you don't know, that's the process that you see, you don't see a Schizophrenia one art prize for best drawer. And, you know, you don't see the opposite side, you know what I mean? It's always the negative, the negative side until there is a negative side and there is the ignorance as well. We'll try to think as much for our cause. Basically Do you have a lot of fun with it? Do you have a, you know, play it up a little bit, you know, you don't see him to see that. Like you say, let's say it to be the psychos. Yeah. So tell me about your voices. You just mentioned that. The tone me. Tell me what, what sort of tell me, just tell me about your voices. Let me try it. Okay. Did you, you talk about the illness as a sickness. So why is your ex or do you have any, do you just see the voices as just being you to a more functioning brain? I mean, or do you have, you know, we're not going to go to the delusions, but are we all Schizophrenia to have explanations? Right. So w what, what, how do you see the voices? What, what do you see them as well? You like a video of things, right? Yeah. I just want to, have you seen, or have you seen, or have you got to Netflix? Have you seen the show maniac? Well, it is called Emma Stone and, and that guy from Superbad, a fat kid from Superbad, our company was like, well, he's really slim in maniac. And it is a about schizophrenia. It's a, you know, obviously it for drama, but its quite a while I was just one, you know, what, what, how do you see Schizophrenia portrayed and in the media? I mean, because it was about it, the reason for a mania because I've watched that last year, I thought was amazing and it really made me feel, yeah, this is good. This is like a positive, you know, it makes us look like as if we're, you know, when we're having a hard time, but there's a meaning to it and you know, there's something beautiful at the end. You know, there's, there's not, there's not much out there like in film and TV. I mean what, what the hell did you see that? I, Yeah. I th I think that's what we need. We need that inspiration, you know, that, that to me, because, you know, I mean I used to go to the day center and it can be kind of depressing. Cause I think from what I can go with you, that your, your coping very well, you know, I think you, you sound great. You got to get a handle on it. You, you know, I mean, So, that's kind of, I agree with you. You need to have the inspiration from fo just from, from the, from the world. Well, over the thinking, being scared of us, I think you get we're fighting through adversity, so yeah. So yeah. Be a beautiful mind. Yeah that's a good film. And have you seen a few of the cookies in the us? Yeah, definitely because I'm you actually, I did read that movie and I've watched the side of it as if you want us to give me total. This view is, which is a study a bit too thought for me. So I, I think I could still watch her later on, but I was thinking, I'll go to hell at the, I don't know if I could handle this because if you want, but because it is kind of the light that is kind of, it, it does, you know, it's not, I'm, you know, it's, it's a dog film. I've got to be prepared for it sometimes. Yeah. Three, let me just quickly talk about your medication. What type of medication do you take and how has that changed over the last 15 years or so? But that CBD oil is the extract from the cannabis plant, which is not psychoactive. And from what I know is best to the fact is an anti anxiety. So do you take a anti-psychotic as well or just the CBD? Yeah. Because I'm, I don't know, American, you can get a CBD oil is different to a medical marijuana, isn't it? Okay, man. Well, that's great. So that, I think, I think that we can call it a wrap that up. So just, I, I am going to play some music idea in my head so far are playing some techno music for you in closing here. Thanks for having you on. Oh, you sound very strong, man. You know, make clear and like every time, you know, eloquent, I think you're probably coping Mo the most, my percentage of people out there you're prepping, but the number, so, yeah. I've got to a website and I are going to a form on that. And at the moment, no, this is only the upset, free. Not Hello, and welcome to another episode of Interview schizophrenia. Today. I have Christian with me. Christian is from this world Christian lives in Las Vegas. He's 18 years old and it has a diagnosis of Schizoaffective disorder. Hello Christian how are you doing today? Okay. That's fantastic. So, so you're quite young, but it tells me about how your mental health journey began. What age did you first have symptoms and when did you get diagnosed? Okay, fine. Fine. So why you should you got diagnosed? Say you were, how many times were you admitted to hospital? Wow. How did you find the hospital? Okay. Fine. And well I'm what was the, what was it like inside the hospital? Was it nice? What did you feel safe there? What were the doctors Good with the nurses Good? Yeah, man, that's, you've got to have a great attitude. Do you know? It is a lovely attitudes you have, so it didn't, I put you on medication, Tell me about that. What did they put on you originally? Okay. And so now your diagnosis Schizoaffective was Bipolar type. What, what medication you are now? Okay. Okay. So you take a minute or a mood stabilizer, an anti-psychotic or a side effect for me for the side effects for like the, the tremors and a steep medication Yeah okay. Okay. And do you have to deal with side-effects? How is that? How have you been coping? I mean, you know, how, how, how does, how it affects for you? Okay. So tell me you were a school for a lot of these. Tell me how did, how did your friends react for winter? So you thought that was unfair for them to isolate you? Yeah. And how did your family react to you? Yeah. I mean, you know, it's not, I dunno, it's difficult to say the call it the wrong. It's not wrong or right. So that, I think, you know, it's a, is a condition, but you have, but its not as clear as a beam is not a physical condition. It's a mental condition. It's a condition of the mind and the spirit. So it's not like, you know, I don't think its right or wrong or anything. It's just, it just the way it is, you know? Okay. So did you, do you know what you're doing at the moment? Are you studying or are you, are you tired? Are you resting, are hurting? What was happening? And now, Do you find, so what do you guys to do you now then? Definitely. You know what I think is I'm, if you want to succeed with this illness, the best approach is to have a warrior. Attitude is, is not, you know, you could be a warrior or it can be a victim. If you're a Royal, a warrior, you know, you find for yourself, if you go after for when you want, you know, you don't, you know, you don't complain all the time. You go for it, go for it. The one, you know, but I think that's a finance, the most important thing for success. And you can't, you can't succeed a with this condition. There's not enough. There's no reason why not Yukon. Yeah. You got to do that. Why don't you tell me why is hypomania? Okay, great. So in what, what sort of hobbies do you like? What do you play? Computer games or music? Do you like sports? What sorts of things would you like to do? Okay. Okay. Christian I think, I think that we can, we can close it out because the microphone quantity, not like good, but I definitely like to speak to you again. Maybe if we can go back a connection, I would definitely want to speak to you again. Maybe we can speak and a few months time and you could ask after the PO, after coronavirus has finished and you can tell me more about what's going on and you could give her too. Okay. Let's be like, what type of music do you like? Pop rock. Rock is pretty nice. Pop rock. Okay, cool. Cool. Cool. I'll play some music for you and yeah. Thank you very much for speaking, for taking the time to speak with me. Just generally the absolute pleasure. I think that you've got a good attitude. You've got a slight positive enjoy your time now or the client of ours as a paranormal. You know, Hello and welcome to another episode of Interview with schizophrenia today. I have Aaron with me. He is in the United Kingdom and Birmingham so, Aaron, how are you doing? Welcome to the show. It's absolutely a pleasure of mine. So I didn't know too much about Aaron's backstories, so let's find out. So why don't you tell me about how your mental health journey begins? I saw it. It would be interesting for me to know what the hospital was like, because I, I think one of my friends was in a ward last year. I had visited him and there was a lot different to when I was in the world. And so what did he tell me about the hospital? A pace? Pardon? Or did you, were you able to relax in there and where you able to get back some of your sanity? So how, how will do you, what's your age? Oh, okay. Fine. Fine. So, you know, you're quite, you're quite a bit, are you a student? Okay. And where are you going to start to go Okay, cool. Okay. So fine. So yeah, I mean, I also, when I was younger, I also did smoke a lot of weight and I think that was a factor in my psychosis as well Early. Yeah. So THC, the psychoactive and that's what, that's what I say encourages psychosis. Whereas the CBB is anti axial XLR tick, which is like an antianxiety and its sort of counterbalances THC. I think that affect the strain, the weed strains. Now compare to what I smoked about 20 years ago. They're much stronger in TAC. Okay. That was pretty crazy. So why don't you tell me more about, so you, you go and you continue your story, you, when you went into hospital and then what happened so Yeah, that's what I. So when I visited a friend last year of what I notice was how much more secure it was compared to when I was in, like, there was a lot from the doors and then a locked door for the board and each patient's bedroom was securely locked. You know, it was a lot more and it looks a lot more like a prison then when I, when I was in the hospital. And so that's why Yeah. Say what is your diagnosis then? Advisement. Okay. Fine. Okay. So if you want to talk about your symptoms. I mean, you know, I think I've talked about this before. I think, I think a statistically is always like one, a a hundred people get a schizophrenia. So, you know, I think that the trauma and a weed smoking is like, it doesn't help, but I don't think those two factors alone would make you have schizophrenia, but I would, I would perhaps encourage it if you were already predisposed. Do you know what I mean? It'll be like, yeah. You know, so, so you have, so your delusional or persecutory delusions that you have for people that are going to hold on. How do your friends and family react to the, all of this? Yeah. You know, I think that's where I think I'm like on Facebook and I would pay some pretty crazy stuff and I we'll lose friends, but there was always my close friends state that States you have to be in my mind about it. I know Duncan's web based is a bit, it does that generally. And I think, I think like most of them are kind of Okay, but it is, it is still difficult to talk about. I think, you know, I mean, have you experienced any stigma or discrimination? But so Y while your parents' for the future, or you want to get your degree and then what you want to do. You know, because I think I'm, you know, I think working does is helps a lot because yeah, if you're on, if you're not working, you got to kind of disability benefits that can be quite stressful because, you know, you've always got a getting reassessed and you don't have much money and it can be quite stressful. Experience was just going for it and just giving, giving my best shot. And the early money is it is definitely worth it. So, yeah. Yeah. So tell me, you told me about you have the lesions. Do you have hallucinations as well? How did you get out of that? What did you have to do? Okay. Well, it's kind of like when you go back to a safe environment, like your home, when you've grown up, you know, things and objects and people, they bring you back to who you really are and you know what I mean? So I think that that comfort or safety can, it can really help. I mean, to tell me how, how do you feel about what people think about schizophrenia? What, you know, what is image? I think it's a Highland. The whole thing was that he was in psychosis the whole time. Yeah. I'm not technical to understand what exactly did they trick him at the end or was he in psychosis? I don't know whether or not, you know what I would say, is it difficult to work out? Well, yeah, it's a good thing. I enjoyed it. But you know, I'm like skip the people with schizophrenia are more likely to be victims of violence that be the perpetrators of violence. Yeah. That, that statistically, that's just the fact because people with schizophrenia are more vulnerable, you know, like they are often they need someone to the guide them of everyday life, you know? So yeah. And, and, and the, and in the media, it's all about, I had some, some guy got killed his wife and their dog, and he has a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia. And, and that's all you hear like on, in the news, but you never had, you know, this is just normal people. It's just a health condition. And you know, it was a lot of suffering that goes on and there's a lot of pressure and we just wanna live a normal life without, you know, being stigmatized in that way. Well, I mean, I think, you know, I think, you know, schizophrenia is a lifelong illness, so, you know, I do, I really hope that, you know, maybe you get your, your early twenties and your symptoms will subside. You know, I really hope that it's the case because It's different either, either I'm not a doctor, so I don't know it, but I mean, for me, I first became aware when it was about while I was in high school and I was about 24 and I'm 45 now. So I'm still a psych go through psychosis, but I dunno, we got, we got a, a M I just hope for the best really. So tell me what, what, when you were at home, what you like to do to calm your mind, so you to give you a pace, what you like to do at home, but like to coping strategies. Okay. And can I ask you, is there anything, but I haven't asked you that you would like to say on this platform? I think that is so important. And, and to support someone, you don't have to do anything special or, or you just, the name of that, it's just the beta. Do you know? Or just to listen to what we're going to say, you don't have to do or have any particular skills or anything. This is a support or somebody I can help. And I think we can wrap it up here or what I want to do. I usually do place some music. What sort of music do you like all of that crime get? You know, And today I have the great pleasure of having Paul from Wister share in England. He is 25 years old and he has a schizoaffective diagnosis. So welcome Paul to the show how you did today. Yeah. I mean, that's kind of a, it's kind of part, a course for people on oxycodone medication is to, we need our sleep, I guess. I mean, it's a, it's a real problem because I have that as well. And lots of people have on psychotics have the same issue with sleeping because yeah, I mean, I guess that's all I can say is that the longer you take them kind of gets easier, but it's still that I suppose. Yeah. Yeah. I, I do a call back around 2012 when I took some time when I left my job and I took some time out to recover. I'd go to bed at midnight or I guess probably like 10 o'clock in 10, 10:00 PM. And I would hope to get up at like nine o'clock in the morning, but I would regularly sleep priests or often mid Bay. And there was, there was nothing I could do about it. It was just all so tired, you know, it's just, Tell us about how your mental health journey began you're twenty-five years old. So tell us, give us a brief history of, of the events leading up to the diagnosis and, and what happened. I mean, so you were taking drugs, was it, was it just, it was just recreational in what you weren't addicted? It was, I mean, tell us about that. Yeah. I mean, I guess around that age, 18 to early twenties, people did experiment, you know, all when I was younger, all I did was cannabis. I know it's a psychoactive by guests and there is a space to be a link between cannabis and psychosis. But yeah. Yeah, man. I mean, yeah. I think when you're young, you want to enjoy yourself. Right. So I guess, so you do these sorts of things, but do you think, do you think it was like a major causal effects of your psychosis? You know, I went to Amsterdam myself last year and a half. I don't know if you have as well, but I had a space muffin and I can't remember the THC content, but it was pretty high. And I just, I went to McDonald's and ate the space muffin, and then I thought I'll just walk around and sit a dime. And I just had, I was out of it. I was completely out of it. And I also experienced psychosis, like symptoms as a losing, losing touch with reality. But it was, it was something I hadn't felt for about 10, 15 years. It was like an old psychosis resurfacing, which is, which is kind of interesting. It was, yeah, it's strange. But I dunno if cannabis is like a healing drug or something, but I don't know that I definitely did feel the psychosis and, and yeah, it was kind of scary. I think I had a sound or a pair on a sandbox sat next to a wall by a canal until it wore off a little bit, but yeah. Okay. So, so what sort of tell us about what you're doing now? Are you in recovery? Are you working on your recovery at the moment? Okay, cool. What's your master's degree in Ah, cool. What was your bachelor's? Ah, I just kept engineering as well. I really, yeah, I did. I did. I graduated in 1997 by the conference. Yeah. It's a tough course. It can lead anybody to psychosis that course. So what, so what, that's great, man. Yeah. So, you know, with a bachelor's and that master's, you can do a lot and that, you know, you can, you can do a lot with your life. I think so. I mean, I took seven years when I took a claim sickness benefits because I just couldn't do anything, you know, and, and whatnot. And we forget it to a, what's called a recovery college and, and the speakers, they all had mental health problems, but I all recovered to the point that they could become work. They could become recovery workers put in a recovery college and it was really, and, and some people take a long time. Some people take years out to recover, you know, there's no set time how long it takes, you know? So yeah, it takes, it takes some, you just got to give yourself time and wait until you feel strong enough. And also the more time you get out and you kind of feel hungry and trying to think, yeah, I really want to get back into it and do something. And how are you feeling? So how are you feeling now? What is, what is your mental state at the moment? I mean, T tell us about that. Okay, cool. Yeah. I mean, no medication, it, it does take the edge off. I mean, do you employ other sort of strategies? You know, do you, 'cause a lot of people like to experiment with art or, or have hobbies, you know, to, I think it really helps, you know, to have a therapeutic approach of when you can do something that will see your mind. Have, have you looked into that? Okay, cool. So tell, let me, I've got a list of questions. So I'll just, I'll just put you in like give you a mastermind moment, I guess. How did your friends react for your mental health journey? Yeah. Yeah, it does. And, and how did your family react to your, maybe not as your immediate family, but your extended family? How did they react? Mm. Okay. Do you, what are your, are you experienced any psychotic symptoms at the moment? That is, I mean, do you experience, are you, are you go through some intense delusions or hallucinations or is it, Oh, is it pretty much calmed down due to the meds? Yeah. I've heard people talk about that. I've heard people talk about that. Okay. What else is it a while I would ask you, what do you believe schizophrenia, Schizoaffective, w w you know, psychotic disorders, what do you believe they are? Textbook. That's a textbook on supple, but if that was correct, the medications would cure us. You know what I mean? And they don't, they're not a full cure. I'm just, I'm just, what I'm trying to say is I'm just trying to lead you so that you can think perhaps what could it be? You know, what is actually going on here? Have you, have you experienced any synchronicities? So synchronicity is like a, if you're thinking about, you could be thinking, thinking about, say Duncan, and then just when you're thinking about it, my, I sent you an email and the exact same time that's is that what's in Christie's, it's like a, it's not a coincidence, but it's, it's so ridiculously accurate. It's just, it can, it can, it can settle you. And I kind of, I mean, for me that it happened, it happened occasionally, not like everyday, more like once every three to four months. So that's something that you might experience. Oh, yeah. That, that is, that's definitely a classic psychosis. And Paul have you ever been in a hospital? Oh, really? So what was your experience like in a hospital? You know, they, the hospital, mental health wards have changed quite significantly in the last 20 years from when I was in inpatient and to what they are like now, because yeah, you say prison because when I visited a mental health ward last year, and it's like sick, high security is quite, is quite, and th it's a different atmosphere that as well is kind of, you kind of watched a new kind of, you know, when I went to a hospital, there was security, but it was only my one door, but the mental health ward I visited, there was a door in your room. There was a dog and the ward, and there was a door on the main entrance, which is my debt hard to escape, but, you know, I mean, right, They're a bit heavy handed? I think, I think, you know, I think what it's down to is it's a simply fair and because maybe they don't really understand the condition and also in a mental health ward, you have schizophrenia patients, bipolar, depressor, depressives, you know, the full gamut of mental health disorders. You know, so I guess for the orderlies, by probably a quite ignorant about the conditions that is not their job to know the medical, medical details, medical symptoms. So I guess they just want to control the situation. Sorry. Sorry. Carry on. Yo, you're at home now that's in the past, you know, are there certain things that you're doing that, are you optimistic that you won't be in a hospital again? Yeah. Because I think what needs, if you go in a hospital, you'd have to have a psychotic break and do something strange. And then, then they would probably put you in the back in a hospital. I get put a wall. I want to ask you another question. Have you had any breakthroughs that you would like to share and how did you any in your recovery or your mental health journey, have you had any breakthroughs that you can think of? Know if not, it doesn't matter. Was the biggest watching films. Cause I was going to ask you if there is a mental health fems, but I know what it's like. Sometimes it can be difficult to ingest media because it can make you paranoid and it's sometimes just don't have interest in what they're talking about. So I can understand that. Okay. Paul I think we can wrap it up here. It was a pleasure to speak with you. Do you have a particular genre of music that you prefer? Schizophrenia. I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today, well, this evening I have Al and Al from Bosnia he's in his early thirties and last year was diagnosed with schizophrenia. So our welcome to the show. How are you doing the same? That's fantastic. Thank you. Oh, I want you to tell us about your mental health journey from the beginning, what you went through, how were you treated? And Bosnia, if you'd like to talk about that, that'd be fantastic. Okay, man, that's quite a tough history. You've had the, how, how are you coping at the moment? So do you want to talk about your strange ideas? You don't have to, if you don't want to. Is it important? You know, these are illusions, but these experiences I think, is important to talk about them because we don't get a chance in normal everyday life to do that. Because even today I had a delusion, I fought that aliens. What hacking my phone and put playing a joke on me. But later on in the evening, when I calmed down, I realized that it was just a mistake I made, you know, but I, when I w I did, I did I, and I'm, you know, I'm older wise now, but I still had that delusion and the skill scary. Do you want to tell us about the feelings you had when you were younger? When you had a delusion? What it felt like? But I think is important to hear your experiences. What, what, how did you feel in hospital and that, and the way you treated? How is the psychiatrist? But, you know, in my experience in England, yeah. Ingrid the great, great country. Even the psychiatrist we have in London, they're not a great man. They just, they just, okay. Yeah. You're hit, you're hallucinating, have a higher dosage, or you're feeling too drowsy, cut the dosage down, you know, it's like anybody could do it. Right. They don't, they don't say, okay, well, you know, I think, I think there's much more, there's much more finesse to it. If they really wanted, they could say, okay, well, there's these, this new atypical and psychotics that have come out, we want to try you on Latuda. If you, if you get any side effects, we've got some medication for side effects that don't say that they just, they just make me take the same old medication year off the year and all they can do to change the dosage. You know, it's, it's terrible. It's horrendous. Absolutely. I suspect, I suspect that it's probably more advanced in America, you know, I think because that's the way they, that's where the hell happens. You know, I suspect like in, if say if you went to a psychiatrist in New York, I bet you they're pretty good. I reckon. Man, you've got a good, you know, you come across is like, as like a really good man, you know, I wouldn't call you anything like the words you've described. You know, I mean, I think, I guess it's maturity as a male. You and you, you become so of an observer of your own life. If I, if you know what I mean? Yeah. Eat in America, America, I would say, yes, it's progressive. Even, even England, you know, is still, we're still struggling with this. You know, I would say that there's a lot of movements, but it's, but schizophrenia is not often talked about. It's like the forget a mil for gone illness. Nobody really likes to talk about it. So Oh, you know, I think, I think we're going to wrap this up early because we're having problems, but I want to ask you to say, is there anything else you'd like to say that we haven't covered yet? I can tell you something. When I started my job of the seven years of unemployment, it was really hard, but my brain got sharper. You know, my brain got sharp of when I was doing the job, you know, because I had to think I had to concentrate, you know? So I think, I think you just have to be brave and just go for it. And then you, you We, you you'll find that you'll find strength. You know, you'll find strength that you can actually do it and, and, and conqueror, and your brain will get stronger. You know, Yeah. The exercises to help you. Definitely, those are important factors, but you know, something, I just got annoyed that there's a lack of good role models for people with schizophrenia disorders. And it's just frustrating. And I just, I just want to improve the image of schizophrenia and give, give who have a diagnosis. I just want to give them hope, you know, that they can, that they can be something bad and what they done, what they might be thinking about, you know, they can, they can achieve what they want to achieve if they really just go for it. You know, Yeah. If anything, we can open the minds of just regular people, you know, that, that, that schizophrenia people with schizophrenia experience Bananarama, which is beyond current accepted norms, you know, you know, what we experience is, you know, it is so strong. You stop there, you know? So I, I think a lot, I mean, spirituality, whatever, you know, I think, I think people could learn about it because at the end of the day life pretty short life gets fast. Life can go pretty damn fast and we don't, we don't stay on that forever. We go somewhere else. And so that's the end game. So perhaps gets the people with schizophrenia, have a slight advantage in the end game because we, we experienced this stuff before, before we, before we die, you know? Yeah, man. Okay, man. Well, let's talk it out. What, what Music do you like that I can add up to the end? What kind of do you like electronic or rock or pop music or a club? Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. You know, I would love to speak to you again, perhaps if we, maybe the next year, if you've got a computer, we, you know, we have a proper Interview, you know, if you're interested, it'd be fantastic to speak to you again, it was a pleasure to speak to you tonight. I think you have a lot, some interesting insights and it just adds to the, the, the, the spectacular discussion that we're crazy. You know, I think, you know, it's just, we just need to get, we just need to talk about what's inside of us from having this unusual disorder. So absolutely a pleasure to speak to you. Hello, welcome to another interview with the schizophrenia. And today I have the great pleasure to have you met with me. Matt is fetch four years old and he's from Nebraska in the United States and has a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia. So welcome to the show, Matt, how are you doing today? I'm good. How's it going? Yeah, I'm doing good as well, man. It's, it's a bit of a nervous and excitement about doing my first video interview, but yeah, I think it should be fun. It should be keen to see how it is. So how's the COVID situation with you? It's not exactly normal time, but what's quite remarkable is how people just kind of adjusted to it. You know, it wasn't too, there wasn't a big pack. I mean, there was kind of like panic buying, I guess, but not people just got on with it, I guess most people I think, Actually in reality. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Ma'am let, let's start with the, with the mental health talk. So what the first question always the same, which I ask is if you give me a brief history of how your mental health journey began, what were your first symptoms, how you got diagnosed, how you got into the system, just that sort of India pale for other people to understand how it happens, how does condition can start at a younger age? And is that because you, you experiencing hallucinations or you're experiencing something which made you believe that Okay, fine. So what, so, so in your 2021 you got diagnosed, then what happened then? Did you, because you're working now, you're obviously more stable. To become a doctor. So are you experiencing any psychotic symptoms now? And I, in the present sort of time in 2021, But it says a negative side, the negative symptoms of schizophrenia is that what's causing you issues. Do you think, Do you get frustrated about the amount of understanding of your condition that is lacking from your peers and from the medical community? Is that an issue you Quiet. It's kind of like an acceptance of the, of how your localized world is at the moment. You can't change it. So you kind of just got to accept it and live your life to the best you can. Yeah. I mean, similar of me, I mean, I'm pretty open with, with my diagnosis. I haven't told people at my current job yet, but if they do find out by Google search, I'm fine with it. It's not, it's not a problem. Or, you know, if it needs to be out, I will talk about it. But the way I say, you know, we can solve stigmatize ourselves. We can, we can make us think, you know, okay. Yeah. Schizophrenia, such a terrible thing to have, but at the end of the, it's just a medical conditioner, right. Quiet. You know, you quite, you've reached a level of acceptance where you felt, you know, it's as kind, right. Well, this is the way it is. That's, that's how it is. That's why I get that feeling from you. For. I can see where they're coming from. Since get your working anyway, do you find your job helps you? Chemical. I mean, Okay. I work in hospital as well. I was working in a hospital in London during last year. So that I've changed. I've changed sites now, too. I'm actually working from home at the moment, but that different hospital. So my career is healthcare related. I work in, I in the computer side of it, but sometimes I'm based on site at the hospitals. So I find it interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Last year was strange. We've Covid. Yeah. I know. I don't. You mean it w it's still a bit 20, 21 is a silhouette of a stranger to tell me what I mean, do you, do you go to any, do you do anything outside of work outside of your home life to help you with your condition? Do you go to any drop-in centers or have you gone to them in the past? Is there anything like that? Okay. I think we're gonna wrap it up. There's two more questions. I want to ask you the first question I want you to, you can talk about anything you want, anything I haven't asked you, now's your chance to talk? If I, something that I haven't asked you, please do talk about it now. Yeah. I think one of my previous episodes has been to a trap from Canada and he said, and I looked it up afterwards. There's a new medication, which they're trialing, which is a nose spray after third, if you heard about it. Oh, it also bypasses the digestive system. So you do not get the same side effects. Yeah. It goes to the brain. So that would be fantastic if they, if they did, if that got approved and became, became available. I mean, that would be a game changer. I would, I would think Okay. And the last question I would ask you, could you let me know some sort of music? What sort of genre you like? So I'll tack onto the end of this episode. It was sad. It's quite kind of amusing. I saw the video the other day. That's the truth. Okay. I just want to say, thank you for speaking with me. Thank you for coming on my first video interview and absolutely pleasure. You know, I hope everything goes well with you and, you know, just continue, continue fighting and yeah, just great pen to speak. Hello and welcome to another episode of interview with the schizophrenia. I'm your host Dom conserver singer. And today I have the great pleasure of having Eric from new Orleans and Louisiana. He's 37 years old and he's got a schizophrenia, schizophrenia diagnosis, I believe. So. Welcome to the show. How you doing? Yeah, I'm doing pretty well. Yeah, not too bad. It's it's a Friday, you know, it's always a good day, so, Exactly man. Exactly. Fridays is. Yeah. Okay. So what I want to ask Eric is if you'd like to tell us how your mental health journey began, how, what were your first symptoms big? You, what was your, how were you diagnosed? How did you get into the mental health system? Did you go to the hospital? You know, what, if you could tell us about that, that would be really great. So what, so that's pretty scary, man. So when you were a young kid, you saw, you saw you had visual hallucinations. So how did you deal with at the time? W what about, did you, I mean, how did you tell your parents about it? So when you look back now, you get better. I mean, you know, because people do say they see ghosts. I mean, how do you know what's not a ghost, you know, as we could say, and it was a, it was a Holy summation. How did how'd you know that? Yeah. I mean, you know, the medication in only does so much, you know? Yeah. Do you get a chance to talk about your voices? I mean, do you have a partner you can talk about, or do you talk to your friends? You got a chance to talk about it? Because I also have voices and I'm not just, and it's like a major part of my life. I can't talk about it. It's just ridiculous. You know? It's like, I, you know, it's like a part of my identity and yours, a part of your identity, you know, it's a part of who we are, you know? So I think, yeah, I just, because it's part of the normal human, right. Because schizophrenia is, it's been around for quite a few. I think it was, I think the quote, like coined the phrase on a hundred years ago or something, but it's a part of the normal human experience. Isn't it? It's, it's our dance in the extremes. Do you know what I mean? We should be able to talk about it. I think, you know. That, that is, it's like in the news, if there's like, like some crazy guy killed his wife and his and his kid to go and yeah. And he had a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia and that's like a major factor in your new story, you know? It's like, it's like, okay, it's cause the phrenia side, that's why he did that. What is low that's? You know, that's not, he was morally, he had, he had some serious issues with his moral compass. I think it's because that's the most schizophrenia because it's just, you know, like, I think in America that's like a, that's like 2 million or something schizophrenia six in America or something like that. There's a hell of a lot more than a million. I think you pop your population's like a hundred and 160 million or something, It's 118 million, maybe 1% of the population. So you said it's pretty much more than a million schizophrenia in America. So most of them are just behaving themselves. They're not getting in trouble, you know? Definitely, definitely that there is, I think there's a hell of a lot of people who've got undiagnosed mental illness and then some of them were schizophrenia as well. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So let me, why also want to ask you, have you had an, the psychotic delusions? Okay. Cause this can be quite scary. I mean, how do you feel when your, okay. So what about a psychotic break? How do you feel when, when you lose touch with reality and you're in the midst of sort of psychosis, how does that feel for you? Yeah. It's going to be very scary. That definitely my experience is the same as gay is that it's terrifying. It can be absolutely terrifying. And, and it's yeah, it's, it's not a nice experience at all. You mentioned God. Have you had any sort of, have you found any spirituality or religion to help you, you know, with, with your symptoms I'm going to have, have you turned to that sort of, Yeah. Because you know the I exactly, because when I have been terrified, I will ask you to, you know, you asked for the highest authority, you know, like you don't want any middleman, you want God to sort it out. Okay, cool. So, so tell me, do you work, Eric? Okay. Okay. So your on disability benefits and, Wow. 'cause, you know, in the UK, I've ha I've, you know, I've spoken to a few Americans about it and it's a slightly different process. I've heard that people getting lawyers in America to get them their social security benefits, you know, they, they will hire a lawyer so they can get so they can win that case. And in the Britain, in the UK, it's quite a big thing because obviously a lot of people with schizophrenia or on benefits, I mean, I spent a long time at benefits and, and it's quite stressful experience because you've got to essentially prove that your, that you're ill and you're, and you're not wandering off to work. And it's quite, you know, that's kind of what they, they, they test you on and it's quite, can be quite a stressful thing to go through. Okay. Fine. What I will ask you, what about, so tell me, I want to know more about, you know, life as a schizophrenia, you know, it's not easy. And tell me, how did your, when you were first, when you, you had, when you said, what age you're 20, you got prescribed Abilify. So I guess that was your first med B. How did your friends react? You know, I think you can, it's worth trying to reconnect because as you get older, people do change. But yeah. I mean, I, you know, like for me, I've got a weird one is where I have a persona, which is normal, which I have to be when I'm with friends, you know, I am a, I am a loner. I mean, to be honest, I am, I am quite loner about where if I am with friends, I will act, I don't, I don't talk about my illness kind of like as if it doesn't exist sort of thing. Yeah. So, so it's like when I'm by myself, you know, I'm looking at mental health forum in the South and I'm exploring outside of my life because it's such a major part of my life. But obviously with regular folks, I don't feel they can handle it, but they don't want to handle it. So like, you kind of agree with me is you just kind of display a persona, which is normal. I know exactly what you mean. Okay. Fine. Let me ask you, so how did your family react when your family a lot more stable? Yeah. Family is definitely, you know, I mean, a lot of people said our family are very supportive and I feel that's a great thing because we need that. We need a support network of some sort I'm usually most get, most parents are usually pretty good. Okay. I'm so sorry to hear that, man. Was he, was he older than you was? It was, it was an unknown. I, I thought of like a heartbreaking illness. Okay. Okay. Let me ask you then what do you believe schizophrenia is? Okay. You, it might be the case that something which you're experiencing might be well. Well, it would be, yeah. Given what you've told me about what you've been seeing and stuff. I mean, I think I figured it was kind of scary, but yeah. I mean, you know, the way I say it, it's like it's part of human experience, but that's an extreme part, you know? So, Because what, 1% of the population has to do it. So it just so happens that with this generation. Yeah. Oh yeah. Definitely. I mean, like I say, I spend most of my time alone really. And you know, it's just, it's difficult. Like, like we're talking about it's difficult to make, to be your genuine self. To know who that, that person, where it is and you meet, you need to have that time where you could just be okay. Yeah. I want to talk about my symptoms. I want to, I want to talk about what I'm going for because otherwise, you know, it'd be unbearable. Hey, let me ask you, Eric, have you experienced any stigma or discrimination? Yeah. You felt I let you down. You know? Yeah. I, I think, I think people think I'm fake. I think that's what the thing is with me. I think they just don't believe me or something. Yeah. I mean, it's just, it's just kind of, I dunno, but I mean, and even when, I mean I'm in, by once I had some problems with the police and I said, yeah, you know, I've got schizophrenia diagnosis and they're like, so that's quite, it's quite a big thing in someone's life. Isn't it kind of affects how your, how you, how are you? What's the word interacting with the world, you know, because part of it, okay, let me say, how do you feel? I kind of know what you're going to say, but how do you feel like the general public understand schizophrenia? I mean, what, what are your feelings on now? Yeah. So like, like, just like, just like, say, say, just say you go on a taxi and the taxi driver said, so man, has you think all man, just terrible symptoms of skits? How do you know what I mean? I'd say, how would he, I was somebody like that. You know, it's not right. I think, you know, I think we, we, my, me and you and everybody else gets when we've got a genuine condition. And I think it's important to people to understand that it's not easy. Yeah. It's not easy. It's one of the hardest things you can go through and what makes it, what makes it hard is, is that it's really difficult to get that support. Oh, what I was going to say is that my brother, I don't talk to them about schizophrenia and you know, I'm, I'm, I'm in my forties and so pretty much my whole life. I talk to them about my illness. That's just not, it's just not in the conversation. Yeah. I could kind of understand that. Yeah. Because I mean, to be honest with you, I think it's, I think it's quite rare for people to have visual heavy installations. Like it's, like you say, maybe it's more common when you're much younger, but into adulthood. I think it's probably quite rare. Okay. So do you take nicotine? It's kind of like a schizophrenia and nicotine is kind of go hand in hand. Okay. Fine. I think, you know, I think we can wrap it up here. Why, why would I ask you Eric? Okay. Actually one last question is, is there anything you would like to say we don't have an OSS G just on this platform? We, anything you'd like to say? Yeah. I completely agree with you. And I think it's hard enough to cope with the, the distinct symptoms themselves, without having to cope with the authorization and discrimination from society, which can be changed through awareness and education. And shouldn't be there in a modern society, you know? Okay. You know, we've got, we've got to deal with the hallucinations and delusions and all that, but just, there's nothing wrong with blood being coined to a schizophrenia person. I think it's, you know, that should be happening these days. Exactly. Okay. Eric, is there any particular genre of music that you prefer because what I'll do, I'll tack it onto the empty shelves. No, I haven't. I will try and find something of that ilk and put on the end. So obviously being Patriot to speak if you're Eric, you know, I completely agree if your message out there about baskets phrenia and the stigma. I think it's so important and we've got to keep fighting and to get our message across and just, yeah, it was to serve sides. Welcome to another episode of Interview at the schizophrenia. I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I'd like to welcome. Travis from Texas a and the United States. He is 28 years old. He's a diagnosis schizophrenia. Hello Travis how are you doing today? You know, I'm doing fine, you know, and not too bad to say it a little holiday book. I am going back to work tomorrow, but she would be fine. How, how has the COVID situation and, and where you are? Yeah, that's cool. I think, I think mosques all the way forward. The, I think it's difficult for them because they won't be able to go back to work and there could be a second spike. Okay. Yeah. So I think that it's probably, it's probably likely to happen, but I guess we'll just have to wait and say, okay, so let's get started. Well, I would like to ask you is if you tell me about how your mental health journey began, what your first symptoms were, how old were you when that happened? And you got the diagnosis, did you go to the hospital? That sort of things, if you like to talk about that. It was your explanation. You know, it, could it be an M you could have dissociate it for like, for like 20 seconds or something is possible. I mean, that's like a psychiatric explanation, but yeah. So it kind of carry on with your story anyway. This sounds weird. But yeah. I mean, you know, you know, this is, yeah. I mean, I guess that's all part of the illnesses and that like, you could have like a synchronicities, do you know what I mean? Where we are, what your thinking and what happens in your life? It's kind of like coincide, coincides Yeah I would get that a lot. And that that's like a, that's not my imagination. The actually happens. It's it's kind of like a bizarre experience where it isn't it. Yeah. It is what we're not imagining that, you know, how it actually happens. I mean that, you know, I have, I have a similar that, a similar thing that happens to me is it not happen often, but occasionally I get an image or I'll get a scene in my head and it will be a, if somebody in real life for like somebody laughing or somebody's, you know, somebody's, do you know what it means? It's like a, it would be almost like a, like an expert excerpt of somebody's life. And I don't know. I don't know what it means, but yeah, it is. It's a strange run for sure. Definitely. Definitely. Yes. Did you, do you get hypnogogic and illusions as well? So it is that is that in my time hallucinations. I don't really know why my, my license is during the day. Usually. Yeah. To me, I mean, that's a bit, it's a good thing. That is, it it's like fight club or something. Nobody talks about it, but you know, it happens. I like the opposite of everybody, but we don't talk about it. You're like, Oh, well, they kind of in the way, but you're not really on the whole story. It's that sorta thing. Yeah. 'cause I mean, I just think your back going back to about 18 years, I was, I was on the flight back from Germany and I thought everybody is telepathic and its normal, but I just haven't told me about it. Do you know what I mean? I'll just pull it all. Yeah. It must be just normal, but nobody, for some reason they would be told me. And he was like Oh, okay. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. That was, that was my first experience. I thought my mind had been hacked. Yeah. It feels like that. Yeah. I know that they've gained entry to your mind and they can do what I want. They can screw around in your life and stuff. But I like that that's going back a long time, but that's one of my first explanations with my game hat. I mean, that's, that's got to be some sort of hallucination, right? You know, I've done it if this happened to you. But a few years ago, like we had suffered happened, like I'd be eating my cereal. And I puff out my cheeks because I was due, I was eating it and look at the television and, and Homer, Simpson's doing exactly the same thing. He's not eating fruit puffing out of his cheeks. And I'm just like weird stuff like that. Yeah. It's weird. It's weird. The way is like, I remember Frank was talking about it. He was my first interview and he said it's like training because it cut it. Because when you go for a schizophrenia, like chronic schizophrenia, you're kind of fighting against the strain. Generally I'm a mom. I used to think it was like a ball or something. So I fought, I was trying to be random, random shit just to confuse them. And, and, and I remember I put it as a virtual reality. So I go off on a fairy because I fought that the most graphic intensive thing we'd be water or do you know what I mean? Like water and I had a complaint, so it wouldn't be able to handle it. And it was just like this, all the stuff that happened like that. Yeah. I know it, it's just bizarre. The weigh, like when you, when you're in fight or that, when you're like, like for my experience, it was about a new, about 10 years ago that I got in contact with other people who are suffering with schizophrenia. So I fought, I was not alone anymore. But when, when you're, when do you feel that it's, if it's just you, it can be really intense when you think this is me and I'm going to put a strain shit. And there was like the world. Yeah. It's just so weird. But when you, when somebody else makes a joke about, Oh, you got to the FBI where I had a van, I said in my flat again last night and yeah, it was from Cuba. And it's like, you know, it's not just me, you know, somebody else's thinking about this stuff. So that's really helpful, you know, that definitely, you know? Yes. 'cause I, I went into a bonafide for like a year, but it was horrible for me because I know, I know that the advantage of Abilify is that it's one of the modern ones and also kind of white and neutral when a lot of the, like, I take a lens of pain and that's like, do you know what I mean? It's just a side effect, but that's the So I don't know. I don't, I'm a bit chicken to try benefit again, because it was, I didn't like the side effects. Really. Yeah. Well, she actually passed away. Hi, how are you doing that, man? Because like, I've, I've lost both my parents as well. How, how do you think, how do you think about it? Because that's different when someone commits suicide are not fo I don't know first had experience, but I know it can be quite traumatic. So how, how are you giving him a friend? I know. Yeah. I mean I'm, I've kind of got a spare. I, I kind of got a strong spiritual non-religious beliefs, which helped me, you know, you know, there are certain people you can read books by like Brian Wise, Michael Newton, who could give you a good sort of the idea of, of the spiritual world in a spiritual realms. So I'm kind of saying is you might not be far wrong with what you are actually thinking that you might see her again, you might not be far on with that so that they are all kind of spiritual peop you know, books out there, which give credence to that. But it's, it's not a slight, it's not religious. So, you know, it's just, it's more, is more about people's experiences with death and stuff. Yeah. So I think, I think for me when my, my mom passed in 2007 and I was like, I was like in a wreck, I couldn't have the lip. You know, it is like, is like, whatever is like too, it was too bad as too seriously intense for me, but my dad passed last year and that was a lot smoother. So that's kind of like the first ones, the first one was tougher ones Yeah so that, I think that might not be there yet. You know? So how are you coping with life now than Travis Do you, have you found that you were kind of, you became an expert in psychiatric medication should, I mean, you kind of know all the shit is like, it's just kind of like, Yeah. I think, you know, like I've heard about people, you know, like when, when you're working, you can go through ups and downs and like, if you, if you have Zen attitude, I just want more remain peaceful and calm, balanced life has a lot easier. So I kind of, I've heard of that. Actually. I tried to play, I think, I think to myself, yeah, just be Zen. I just don't know everything effect you. Do you know what I mean? And it just kind of just, I just think even if something, somebody gives you something stressful to do the swing. Okay. Fine. I'll just, Oh yeah. It's not a problem with that to every everything's the same, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. To the horrible intrusive for is a horrible Yeah. I mean, yeah. I mean, a thing is the benefit of working for you, isn't it? Do you, do you sometimes like as a stash of medication And and that sort of things, but I like it. I mean, you have a, I guess you'd want to have a medication, but sometimes some people are, a lot of people just don't take their medication and then they end up with a cup of full of the medication and, and then the next day I'll take him again. And then they said, I mean, I I've got a stash of medication because my dosage changes and these, this changes the old medications. And like, I would say they get a new one in, so I got like my own personal stash, Do you know? I mean, my job is like in software and software engineering, so I'm able, at the moment I took seven years out where I was, I was in mental health recovery where I did, I just, I just did volunteer work. I went to therapy groups and, and it took me seven years to get back to the level where I, I felt confident enough to do a professional, you know, like a job, which requires abstract thinking, abstract thinking logic or that sort of stuff. So, so it took me a while, took me seven years to get to that level. So yeah, so I was out of work for seven years and then in recovery and know that that's how he was able to get back into the work environment. But more to, what was it I would say is my cognitive level has dipped in the past when I was, I reckon it a bit quite severely back in about 2009 when I was probably about a 30 or 44 years old. That was that's when, like, when I tried to do my resume, my CV, it was just, it just looked at for a child. I had waited. It was just so simple. I just couldn't, I just couldn't, I couldn't think properly, but you know, obviously if you're going into a resume, you're not, you know, paying around, you want it to make it as good as possible, but my mind, it was just ridiculous. So but how has that effected you as well? Well, I could hear you doing that cause I also do that as well. Is that all schizophrenia? States nicotine somehow. Okay. It's hard to say, I think, cause it just kind of assumes, I, you know, it's just kind of serves the mind, I guess. It's not something that makes feels good, basically, whatever it is. Yeah. I know that helps a lot. The people, I mean my personal stance is kind of a vegan ish. Not, not pure vegan, but kind of a vegan 70% of the time. But I don't know. I don't know. I losing way is quite, I don't know. I, I don't know I'm going to work, work on it actually, cause I need to live way as well. I just wanted to ask you, have you experienced any stigma or discrimination, a following becoming it was schizophrenia? And why haven't you told anybody about this apart from the media family? Yeah. So that's why I was getting to Yeah is kind of like a bit difficult. Isn't it? The same way you tell someone that and it's like, yeah, it's kind of, this is a difficult one, but you know, they, it's kind of, what we're trying to do here is to bring schizophrenia into the mainstream kicking and screaming and, and say, you know what, real people are dealing with this. And you know, we're not, we're not mass murders that that's like 1% of schizophrenia people, 99% of schizophrenia, people are just trying to get by. I'm just trying to struggle with these symptoms and, and that's all it is. So let's see. Yeah okay. Travis I think that we could wrap it up here. Okay. Is there any particular genre of music that you like, which I can tag onto the end? I like metal. Hello. Welcome to another episode of Interview. This is a friend and I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I have the great pleasure of Tony. He is from Oklahoma in America, he's in his forties and he has a schizoaffective, bipolar type diagnosis. So welcome to the show. Tony how you doing today? And this will Okay, fine, man. What happened? What happened? What did you get triggered or something? You know, I've also got a very stable delusion, which I quietly accept about myself with a normal people would think or what is he all about? But I can see where you're coming from that, you know, I have a delusion, which I, which I accept myself and I live by, I think, yeah, that's what I think it is. And that's it, it works for me. And I'm happy with that. How are you feeling now? I mean, you're putting you can me, you know, you sound like a cave kind of thing, but is it just kind of like, you know, a lot of this is just a daily occurrence for me, so I've got no choice. Just get for it somehow. So do you want to talk about your delusion? I mean, it's up to you. We can, we can go into a little bit more deeper. Do you want the data? Because I mean, why I'm wondering, like, so do you believe, because I've heard people talk about voice, the skull technology and this kind of a, was it MK Thiel or the ultra? Yeah, I'm of ultra. That was like a CIA project or something where they were developing this techniques, this technology. But I mean, personally, I don't buy it. I don't buy it. I mean, my, my is kind of a little more, lots of the rings or a thing rather than a star Wars. Mine is loaded rings. I guess Yeah. So, so what, what I mean, so what do you expect and what were you experiencing last time? If you give us, like, give us some insight for people who don't really know what, what happens in a, in a, in a severe psychotic break. I, I would fake, you know, I would think that the paps you're going to save this is that the mania can affect your judgment of the delusions as well, completely cause it can, yeah. You know what we can make you, you know, like, like, like creating a plan against the deep science of a, of a America is it would be calling some kind of hypomania. I would think, you know, Okay, fine. I think, I think one of the most frustrating aspects of S of a skitzo spectrum disorder, when you have auditory hallucinations, is that nobody else can hear it. And, you know, it's, it's kind of an isolating experience that we go through that we can hear these hallucinations, but we can't share it with anybody else. You know, it's like, as if you have to be fragment your mind, you have the compartment compartment you have to do, you have the separate parts of it, because some parts are like, I just going crazy and you can't trust them anymore. So you've got a light, Oh, I'll sit in there, stay in the side of my mind that still works. You know, that it's weird, but I know exactly what you mean. It's I never thought about that, but it is because everything, everything we perceive is go is in our minds. And that's what small functioning. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. In a way we do go big. We were privileged that we go for an experience. The 99 people out of a hundred will not know anything about it. So we'll, we will always have that, that, that different, that different life experience of the people. You know? So, I mean, while I was going to say it to you, I'm test about what you're telling me about the microwave signals and you're a fan and people, people telling me against you, you know, I, if I was a psychiatrist, I would say, you know, we'll, Tony, that's the persecutor a delusion. What do you, how do you feel about it? I've told you about that? Have you, have you considered that? I guess I I've got my own delusion. Okay. So my delusion is that people, some people have psychic powers and they can speak to me via telepathy and they are more targeted individual. So that's kind of my delusion. I don't, I don't dwell on it too much. I kind of let it go out there. I think from hearing voices, I think, okay, it's a psychic phenomenon and I live with it, but you know, and that to you, that's probably like, what the hell is it? You don't think about microwaves? So, I mean, I was going to show you a couple have, because I was just thinking about is what we're talking about. And I'm like in America, like the movie industry, like they produce some, like the movies they produced today are pretty far out. They're like superhero movies, you know, it's not depicting real life with people like the general public except this, you know? So I think a lot of people have kind of like a mental issues. You know, they, they think they they've got their own fantasies that call them delusions. We can call it the more people having to find the seas, you know, they believe they're superheroes or that, you know, cause I saw on TV about one of the American guy driving a Batmobile and you know, do you know, do you know what I'm gay, man? It's like, there's a lot of does a lot of fantastical force that goes in and the normal person's life that's out there, you know, for sure, I think, I think America is still ahead in terms of progressive society than the rest of the world, you know, like in Britain we're more reserved. And if it, if you, if you were Belial you kind of get mocked a little bit or ostracized working in America, if you're a billionaire, that's going to be a subculture, there'll be a, there'll be a sub culture for that. So if you're a star Trek fan, there's thousands of people who also started fans and you guys feel that you can go to a conference, but in Britain, like if you, if you're a soccer fan, well, okay, fine. It's not a big deal, then they're not to celebrate it. You know, it's kind of what kind of more, I guess the Mo maybe narrow-minded I suppose a bit, where is the kind of more like a set life path for people in this country was I think in America, to me, I just see like, if you can have, there's a lot of subcultures, which makes it kind of interesting. And so that, that is kind of where I was coming from. Cause I'm just thinking that, you know, like, is it when I say art mimics life or something, you know, like a production of the popular media is, is, is a reflection of the, of the average person psyche, if you know, I mean, we see like in like in the 1980s, the films are in the seventies, the films are much more realistic. Like We like in an action film, the ad, the guy did not jump off on an airplane to another airplane, kind of a more normal, whereas the day that they come flying and shit they can do with it. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. It was like, to me, it's like old, the modern films of America, like how, like a social culture, it's all about having the drug dealer on speed dial is this is much more accepted and like getting banged up in prison. Yeah, man. That's cool. You know, it's kind of like that. I like that as well. And I just think it's a reflection. It's just the way society is progressing, I guess. Yeah. It's a great what you're talking about. Rebel culture. Yeah. It makes sense. It does it. Now. I will say this. I, You know, but, you know, when I said, persecutory, you know, that's where I would say it is because you believe you're targeted individual. Yes. And yeah, man. So maybe you got to work on that. You know, you kind of like a, I don't know, dunno, man. It's just because, cause I know it can be quite a scary place to be because I believe that I've been a target the individual as well, you know, and, and it's quite, it can be frightening and stressful, you know? It is something which is kind of easy and homeless, you know? Okay, so at the moment I believe that it's psychic and I believe that a couple of my friends have, I have a telepathic power. That's what I currently believe. And I, you know, I don't, I don't think about it too much, but that's my common belief. We are in the past. I have thoughts about a religious cults. I have fought about a technology in my head. I have thought about the FBI aliens. Yeah. All of that stuff. I've gone through all of that and I've let all of it go apart from the psychic activity. And, and I kind of a thing, the voice is can't hurt me and, and I can, and I can, and I can gain information, which may be useful. So I just, I don't try to do anything special. I just leave my life normally, but I kind of think that's what I experience. Yeah. So I, I take the lands of pain, which was I prexa, I take 12.5 milligrams. Am I still have voices daily? I've been hearing voices daily since 2010. Oh, wow. Okay. So it's been a long time and I, I just put music on or I just sit there and a buyer I'm determined to go on with myself. I want for my life, you know, I'm not, I don't want to, I'm, I'm determined, you know, I've got a, I've got a strong term at the terminal, a streak in me and you know, and like the person who's, who's psychically harassing me, I have attempted to confront them and I have, and I have posts on Facebook, please, please stop. You know, so yeah. I mean, I have done things like that where that's difficult because it's kind of unprecedented, but yeah. So that, that's kind of why I believe, you know. I mean, for one, one thing I would say, I mean my doctor wouldn't change my medication. I can't change olanzapine, you know, she's like, no, we can change the third stage, but we're not changing the drug cause I'm like, okay fine. So the only thing that I would say is that maybe you need to give it some time as well on keeping changing that amount of drugs in that short period of time. Yeah. He probably haven't been on them for a long enough. I don't know. I dunno. I can't make that judgment. I'm just saying it as a possibility that might be it, but it might not be, but that's all I would say. You're leaving us to say, well, if the drugs don't work out, what the hell is it? Right. I mean, my antidepressants, they also worked for me as well, but the antipsychotics, they can't, it works for a certain extent, but it doesn't, it doesn't do everything. Right. Okay, man. I think we've gone slightly over time today so we can wrap it up. I just want to say a few more things. Tony does have his own podcasts. What is your podcast is take the Cool. Is that true? Yeah, man, I'm going to, I'm going to treat him to that. And I, and what I'll do is I'll put this, I put a link in the description of this Episode that'd be great. Yeah. It's been a real pleasure. Tony is slightly different today because you know, it was a, there was a real natural flow, I think, with this, with these you're a great talker or a thing, you know? Hold on for a long guy. No, but, but my, my, my podcast house people wouldn't have, let me put any more episodes up. Yeah. And one last thing. What type of music do you like? So I can add that on to the end with the show. Hello and welcome to another episode of interview with a schizophrenia. I'm your host. And today I have the great pleasure of having Jasper with me. Jessica is 25 from Kentucky and he has a Schizoaffective disorder depressive type. So welcome to the show, Jasper, how you doing today? Yeah, it's a, the weekends always like what are you working Monday to Friday or, That sounds good. So what it is, if, if you can give us a summary of your mental health journey from a month from how it began, you know, how, how you go into the medical system, how we'll start it off, you know, that would be great. You know, you can, it's up to you for how long you talk and I've got a list of questions I can ask as well. So off you go, Do you think they were just afraid that, you know, it was like a complicated fear emotion of what they expected would happen if, you know, if you started being completely honest about your mental health and how it happened? Yeah. It was understandable. You know, I mean, like with Schizoaffective with it, it's kind of like a hybrid hybridization of bipolar and schizophrenia know these kinds of psychotic conditions are still very much misunderstood and they still, you know, if you, if, if you tell someone you can get varying degrees of reactions. So it's, it's such a strange one because it's just, at the end of the day, it's a medical condition. It's not, it's not a criminal record or something. Do you know what I mean? It's not. So, yeah. Yeah. I can. I remember when I was younger, my parents had say, if I was acting a bit, as they would say out of control, they would say, have you taken your medication? It's kind of like to shut me down and say, you know, there's something wrong with you. Take your medication and it will be okay. Do you know what I mean? I, I think, you know, I've yeah. I think, I think at the end of the day, we come to a place of understanding and acceptance rather than, rather than judgment because, you know, I think this, this is quite not so common, but you know, the stigma so bad, and this is what happens, you know, to even the normal people on the street, they don't really understand the medication or the condition or anything or anything really deep about it. Quite easy for them to be flippant and to trivialize it when, when that's the one course of action, I think, Yeah. You know, I think when you get into early adulthood with some come sometimes have these strange feelings, which we can't explain. And I think that's nearly a part of, you know, that we get made. There could be powerful feelings. You know, I had this, I had, I got, when I was in my early twenties, I had powerful feelings which were inappropriate properly, which got into trouble. And, you know, I think looking back, I think that's just part of, for some folks that's part of just growing up with dope. We go through a phase where we have strong emotions and be, you know, be calm. We're not old enough to handle it. You know? So I, I think, yeah, You know, it's like, I feel like a lot of them, you know, if you're, if you're wearing terrible clothes, if you're unshaven, if you're unwashed, then that's okay. But if you have a good image, a good presentation of yourself, they will doubt it because you're doing too well. You know, it's just, it's a very shallow, it's a very shallow image of someone with schizophrenia because in the, today in today's world, you know, a lot of us can just look completely normal. Yeah. So carry on. Is that, is that like non binary or is it different to that? You know, I mean, when I think about it, are you vulnerable to aggression from folk? Who is it or is it just gossip? I mean, what, what, how, how bad is it? Emotional trauma. I'm not, from what you've told me, you've listed a series of events. So, you know, you've gone through a traumatic events or living you're living through it. You're choosing to live a life, which is which, which, which, which makes you vulnerable. So, you know, I don't know if we know what causes schizophrenia, but I think there are triggers. And maybe I was thinking that the other day that maybe it's always sponsored to a world that we reject, you know, worlds where we reject we and we kind of trigger ourselves. Yeah. You know, I think, I think pets, cats and dogs, they all kind of emotional vehicles in a way that them to react to the emotions of the owner or the yeah. The family members. So even though it's not really a scientific, it is something that you can observe, I guess. Yeah. So that's, that was kind of like the trigger Jasper. Well kind of coming up to time here, but you know, we can have you back for a second upset if you want. We can complete the story. Why, why did, why don't I CA because this is a different part too. This is a part, this is the second part of your story. So why don't we try schedule something for August and have you come back and we can complete it. Let's do that because, yeah, I, I think, I think this is a, it's a good length at the moment. What I want to ask you is I'm going to play some music. I'm going to tack some music on the start on the end. So what CA what sort of drawing would you want me to, to, to add to this episode? Okay. Okay, cool. You know, actually pleasure to speak to you, Jasper. It was, I found it very calming your story. Is there, even though I, your, your, or is very calming, so that was quite nice. So, so let me, let me sort out a second episode in August, and we can complete the solarHello and welcome to another episode of Interview I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I have the great pleasure of speaking with Bryan in South Africa. Welcome to the show. Why and how are you doing today? Are you, are you affected by the COVID COVID-19 in South Africa? Okay. Let's say you should do it. So I ask how, how your mental health journey began. So we might be going back to a few years ago, you talked about how it first appeared or how you reacted. Did you go to the hospital? You know, how did you get diagnosed? How sort of things, if you, if you'd like to talk about, Okay. That's great, man. So, I mean, that's interesting. You said that your, your girlfriend took your symptoms away. I mean, do you know why that could be? Because if someone says that you're not going to react well, or you, but when it's, your friend is different, right. Okay. So, so yeah, it is obviously when your girlfriend tells you a snap out of it, there is a level of trust that there's a level of love there. So it's easier for that for you to, to listen and to really believe in yourself. I think, Okay. Just want to quickly diverts into another area that is going to get up to you are talking about your dreams and you were having some predictive dreams. And did you have any spiritual beliefs which explain those dreams or how do you see that? How do you explain that? You know, because of my own spiritual beliefs, you know, they allow it for what your saying as well. So, you know, I do believe that we're much more magnificent in the spirit world then when we are incarnate on earth and the human body, that is the human experience is here, that we are here to learn. We are here to experience life in the us and to it's something it's an education for us. And I think you did. Okay. I think that that's what, what is going on. Okay. So what would, you said your work in, what, how, how does your work, how, how, how is that going with your daughter diagnosed with ms? So you dealing with a couple of diagnosis and how, how do you, how did you cope with that? Okay. So in the greenroom, you were just chatting and you said that your, your voice is we're going to be a bit crazy. What are you talk about that? How did you feel, or do you feel that the support, the medical and therapeutic support that you get in your local area, how do you feel about that is a good enough? Are you game to support? Because I think probably not going to be good enough, Okay. Is there anything, you know, we're, we're sort of coming up to time now, so I'm just, wouldn't be anything else that you'd like to tell me, which we haven't covered. Okay, cool. One last question. How did you feel about the stigma and have you been discriminated against? Because, because I'm really, you know, I really want to educate people, you know, show that, you know what, we are just normal people who are suffering and we want equal rights. You know, we don't want to be discriminated add how, how, how did you feel about that If I like, if I'm, what about like a friends and family in your workplace? Have you experienced, what's the 47 about your friends that you lost some friends. What about your workplace? Have you experienced any discrimination there? Okay, cool. Is it was really good and listening to you today, Ryan, I think, you know, I think you only 26, your journey, and I think you're going through, you've been through to the chronic phase, you know, so, you know, you, you, things can work out pretty well for you, you know, you know, and hopefully that you, you get a good sense of recovery. Ah, you know, it just, you just got to keep working on it, I think. But yeah. So that's a great thing. It's a story. What, what type of music do you live in? Some, some, some normal to me I Andrew Andrews from Virginia in the USA are effective diagnosis. I's 34. So welcome, Andrew, how are you doing today? Yeah, I'm doing pretty well as, yeah, I'm doing pretty well. I got a site hangover actually, but I'm doing fine. So, Andrew, what I wanna ask you, you know, this, this question is always the same. If you would like to give us a history of your mental health journey, you know, you can start from when you want, you know, it's, it's good to hear how the, how the, the mental health diagnosis came about. What were the triggers and what happened? I think it gives, gives our listeners a real insight. Yeah. So game mention is, is like a tool to build a game on top of that. Isn't it in terms of 3d graphic effects and How, how did you go about designing a game engine? What, first of all, what language were you working with? Your simulating, a real world under computer, which is why you need a physics engine. I would understand. And then the other engines, I guess, would be things like IO and I dunno, design of the, of the graphics or something. Quite mathematical In, in my experience of computer programming in terms of industry, it's more logic, it's less mathematical, but I would understand that games programming is probably more mathematical in terms of algorithms and that sort of thing is, I mean, would, would you say about that? So is this to do with being like, say 64 bit and 32 bit? So I, I think like, you know, I also have hobbies, like this podcast is one of my hobbies and it's, it helps me cope with the condition. Yeah. So I would imagine your game does, is that, do you find that's a good coping mechanism, something to focus on? Well, you know, you know, I think nutrition is important. So I've had experience with plant-based eating and, and that, I think, so that is no dairy and no meat, but, you know, I think, I think, you know, perhaps it is, it is determined to your body type. Yeah. You know, I think you find what works for you. I would say that because, because some people say, oh, what just eating meat. And I, I enjoy the taste of meat and I sometimes eat it, but I gen I generally feel that plant-based works for my body type, my digestive system. Yeah. And it does make a difference, even though I, I, and I do struggle with it because there is quite a domination of meat, eating culture, where I live. And it is, it is difficult to, to, to, to just to do your own thing at times. But yeah, nutrition definitely pays a big part in, in one way. It keeps your body healthy and also it can affect the clarity of your mind as well. So I do eat beyond burgers. I actually, I eat beyond mince. I make bona with beyond mince, which is, I find it. I find it's the Tassies plant-based mint. I've tried. They are. Yeah. Yeah. I think like I can cook a really good vegan burger in my kitchen. And, but, but the problem is most of the takeaways that are vegans sell vegan burgers and they're pretty gross. So I don't tend to buy them because I know that I can cook a pretty good vegan burger at home. Yeah. You know, so, and obviously it's gonna be, it's gonna be cheaper and fresher and all that business, but yeah. I, I tend, I tend to cook them at home. I, you know, I'll have, I'll have like a burger once a week or something, but I, I won't buy a burger from a takeaway because they're never as good. They're always a bit soggy and just don't taste as good. And look, the look of it grows to be honest. Yeah. Yeah. I don't, I don't practice gluten free, to be honest with you. I, I do eat wheat products. I think the main thing for me is just to reduce the dairy and meat. That's, that's kind of what I do. So how you feeling now, Andrew? So you've got the game. Well, how things now Dynamically updated. And I, something like that, it sounds like a lot of problem solving, which is good. Like, I, I guess I would imagine the way my mind works is like, I think of what I want to do and then slowly it will solve itself in the background. Do you know what I mean? Did you, did, did you find that your psychosis was, was an element or problem? So problem solving in that as well, dealing with the psychosis and you're thinking, okay, I need to do this, or I need to do that. Yeah. I think when you get older, you do realize, okay, I actually will take the medication because yeah. It does. It does help. And, and at the end of the day, I think like when I was younger, I used to skip my meds, you know, I would store them up in a little bag and I'd have tons and tons of meds and I would be having psychotic breakdowns. But you know, obviously now I'm older, I think. Yeah. That's why you were having psychotic breakdowns because you weren't taking any bloody meds. I think I, I, I also would like, I have, I have a diminishing dream that one day I will be able to exist without meds, but that today it's not, it's not today and it's not next year, but maybe one day, you know, it's, it is kind of like a dream to, because, because I think that regular people don't understand that the medication do affect us in very severe ways physically, and that is a blessing to be medication free. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, Andrew, I think we almost gonna wrap up, I just wanna ask, if anything else you wanna talk about, which we haven't talked about already. Thank you, Andrew. I won't ask you, give me a genre of music that you like, because I'm gonna add it on to star. And the end of this, of this episode, Is electronic So Andrew, you're always welcome to come back for another episode. You've got my email and we can, you know, we can always talk about, we can talk more, you know, I am, I am trying to get people to come back because I think, I think people wish to hear, you know, how things are going, that sort of thing. So you're very welcome. And it's absolute pleasure to talk with you. And it's, it was fun talking about computer science, which is one of my passions as well. No, no, no, no. Yeah. I just find it interesting to Hello, and welcome to another episode of interview with a schizophrenia. I'm your host Duncan Samra singer. And today I have the great pleasure of having Byron with me. Byron is from Michigan. He is 36 years old. He has a diagnosis of schizoaffective, and that may be under review. So welcome to the show, Byron, how you doing today? It's my pleasure, man. So the first question I'm going to ask, it's always the same question just to give you, I want you to give a history of your mental health journey. You can start whatever age you want and sort of give a, give a summary, just take us to the present day. So if you'd like to do that, you can take breaks. You can talk for as long as you want, or for short as you want. I can, I can always ask more questions. Just, But You know, it's like family. I was thinking about the other day. Family is just a name for folk who, who can abuse you and get way with it. Yeah. So I mean, that's another criminal cases and they really, they, you know, I mean, I CA I guess you're worried about what they're going to do to you, but No, that's fine. So, so this obviously precipitated some severe mental health condition. Is that correct? Yeah. I think autism is becoming more in the spotlight now than it was say 20 years ago. Oh, you can fake You know, you know, I think most schizophrenia go through a phase where they think that Jesus, you know, I've seen it so many times and wearable that's a medical professional con can take it in that manner because it is actually a serious delusion of Pull the Chinese whispers. That's good, man. I, yeah, I think, you know, you come across as somebody who's, he's very lucid, quite clear thinking and they fought full. I think from what you've gone through, you've got, you've got your own unique perspective on life and, and how it relates to you. So yeah. That's good, man. You know? Yeah. Pammy feminism. I I'm kind of spiritual non-religious, but I have had a Christian background, but I'm in spiritual, which means I've got a firm belief in spirit, but I do like pantheism pantheism because that, that relate. I relate to that because I do also believe that God, you can see spirit everywhere, everywhere as an example of spirit. It's just that I would say that, say like a forest or a waterfall that's pure. That's the most beautiful aspect of spirit, but you can see everywhere because we're all part of it. So I do like that. I think the fact that you talk about space and you've obviously got an interest in, in astronomy and, and a and a universe, I also find that fascinating. And the great thing about it is that it takes us away from this planet and our existence. And there's something so much bigger than us, so much greater, so much more beautiful, you know, it's humbling. It's humbling. So I think that is, that is that, that is a great thing to be interested in. And I mean, and yeah, I, I will say that is something that, which I find fascinating as well. I, when I was picturing it in my mind, I was thinking in terms of like millimeters You're actually actually seeing time on you. When you look at space, you're seeing players. Yeah. You know, I feel you, man, I feel you and this good. And I T I, I want to ask you about your, your creativity, because, because that is what we did discuss online. I just want to, and you can eat, go through what, what you've been creating as, as part of your, as part as to raise awareness and your therapy and just for entertainment. Okay. Yeah. So that, you know, I, I think that's great that you're, that you're creative and that's of mind blowing your artistic level. I think it'd be fantastic. If you can share some of that art, if you have a link for that, you know, that will be We'll put the link in the description that's for sure. And also you mentioned, you wanted to, you wanted to read recent poetry that you've written. Yeah, it sounds kind of like the way you spoke. It was kind of like a wrap as well. Kind of like a, you know, got that sort of beat to it. But I know You know, you know, I read online recent that I think there's been like 15 million books ever published in the history of the earth. So that that's a very small percentage of books compared to people. So it's an achievement just to get a book out there and, and, you know, and then I really do feel that. And, and, and, and, and you never know what's going to happen is kind of exciting. So you never know, you never know what's gonna happen. Yeah. Barbara, I think I've been going to wrap it up here, but what I want to ask you is what kind of music would you like me to put onto this episode? What type of music would you, would you like? It's kind of like chill music. It's I find it on YouTube. Yeah, I'll, I'll, I'll be able to find something like that. That's fine. You know, there's a real pleasure talking to you, Byron, you know, you know, you're welcome to come back for another episode. I don't know when that will be, but you know, be patient and are great to hear, hear from more from you, because I think, you know, you really got a lot to say you've got an incredible journey and I think it's an inspiration to anybody that's listening or watching this. So, yeah. So it's been a real pleasure, man. <inaudible> and welcome to another episode of Interview with a schizophrenia today. My guest is Brian from a higher in the USA Hello Bryan, how you doing this weekend? That's exactly what we want to do a wall about spreading the message that schizophrenia is not something to be afraid of its a genuine condition and the people who are diagnosed with it, you know, go for a lot of pain and suffering. So Brian tell me you the way that you were diagnosed about nine years ago. Tell me what happened before that, you know, what was the, what was the leading up to the diagnosis? What, you know, going back a so 10 years ago, I think you worked at the psychologist, you, and you must have spoken to schizophrenia weeks and to all the people with mental health conditions, what, what are you think triggered your elders? Do you think you would just turn to a predisposition or, or, you know, do you think that might've being like a trigger or like some sort of events Yeah. I think, you know, now that the medications kind of like a, a necessary evil, isn't it, when it's is something that we've got to take to, to be able to function. I mean, I swear in one year if I were medication and it was absolutely awful, so I'm never want to do that again. So I mean, I guess you can, you also, except that, you know, meditation isn't necessary and why it won't be the answer, but it's necessarily your brain. Okay. So let's talk about some of the symptoms, you know, you've talked about the negative symptoms affecting ability to do your job, and it's absolutely great, but I guess the schizophrenia is more, is more well known for the positive symptoms. And so what kind of have positive symptoms you have too, let's talk about that. So you have the lesions and paranoia and, or at least a nation's You know, I was just going to say, you talk about your art and, you know, you obviously have quite a lot of severe symptoms, I would say. I mean, and obviously your medication, like you said, you at the edge off that Dee, do you have like coping methods to see in your mind to take you away away from external stimuli? Do you know to keep this, to keep you calm and to just take you into a better place? Do you have to do any coping exercises? Yeah. So it was going to talk, you know, ask you about, you know, if we fast forward Tuesday, I mean, what, what did you think about the future? Are you optimistic about the future? What are your, what are your dreams for the rest of your life, or, I mean, how did you, how did you see that now? Okay. Yeah. This has been a fantastic interview and I want to wrap it up. I just want to ask you one last question before we do that, what you call that a disease. So what you fail, you know, what, what did you feel like schizophrenia? It is in, you know, what, what, how, how would you classify it? You've been a bit like it is just misfiring chemicals and the brain that you think that it is. Okay. Okay, got it. Yeah. So So yeah. Okay. Fine. Did you see it as a, you know, in, in a, in a sense of neurological disorder, you know, like a physical, the physical illness? Yeah. I mean, that was definitely, definitely evidence that supports that for sure. Okay. So carry on. Yeah, absolutely. I think you've raised some very important points there, you know, if not just, you know, it it's even for the people that you meet, you had been diagnosed, the installer, you know, we'd only have fairies of what we experience, whether you can say, well, you know, I think it's great. It is because of what I've experienced, both. And perhaps more importantly, it's a, how often are people with schizophrenia and that, and that perhaps is one of the most important aspects that, that needs to be, it needs to be changed. It's almost, it's almost a bit of a pretty big, that is to say uncles, schizophrenia, there's so much fear wrapped up in that word and what it means. And so, yeah, I mean, that's that we've got a long way to go, but, you know, I, I, I think if you keep talking about it, they are able to show them that, you know, it we're parts of the influence and we we've quite a lot to say, and we want to make it worse. I think we could do it because industry has shot at it. And that, you know, in a small group of people who were determined to the fact that the ignorance with the stigma will provide for them. So yeah, Brian, that's fantastic. Yeah. I'm really happy with that, you know, so thanks. Thanks very much. I will. I will. It's called that Hello and welcome to another episode of Interview with schizophrenia. My name is Duncan. I'm your host. And today I had the great pleasure of having Zuri with me from the United States. How does that feel? How are you doing? That's great. Fantastic. So XOE is there any, is one of the younger participants of this Interview show, but she does have a diagnosis? My, I believe that that message is Schizoaffective. Is that right? Sure. So why don't you tell us how it started for you, how you got diagnosed, what was the leading up to the diagnosis where you would go through? Why don't you tell us a little bit about that? You know, I think what in a schizophrenia is scary when it's diagnosed and wonder one of the aspects, which is quite scary is that it's a lifelong illness. There's no cure, you know, cause your, your young girls. And if somebody tells you a Yeah, is there a, you've got schizophrenia, that's quite a big thing, to be honest with you as a nurse. I mean, you know, I mean, you know, my personal opinion is, is that your still young and it's difficult to predict what's going to happen in 10 years or five years time. Did you know what I mean? I mean, it's difficult for them to know to be Sure, but yeah, I mean it's yeah, it's, it's a difficult one, but so, so tell me, you had, you are going through paranoia and delusions. I mean, tell me what sort of things you are going for. Was, was the now and the, obviously the billing, what was happening and also, but it was mixed in with a delusion. So it was, it was a stronger feeling that it really wasn't a reality. Is that correct? Yeah, no, no, no. I understand because you know, it was like, like the world we live in like the pay today, life, like you're going to school or going to work, whatever, you know, it's not, it's kind of like an allusion, you know, it's kind of the truth, but it's not the whole truth. And the aspect of the spiritual side is also true, but we deny it and we don't accept it, but it is part of the world. So, you know, when you are having delusions spiritual or religious delusions, there is, it is, it is also a schizophrenia sick, you know, and sort of a, a, a delusion, but there's also a real site to it as well. You know, that's what, that's my personal belief because, because the way the world that we live in, it's not the whole truth or do you not, you know what I mean? Yeah. So, I mean, I can not Yeah because it's not as clear cut and saying someone is schizophrenia therefore, or that delusions or false. It's not as clear-cut as that. I don't know. I don't think So, you know, I think there's, you know, there's a little bit of truth and, and everything really. So, so tell me, sorry, what are you? Are you on medication now? But how, how many, you haven't actually told you're age, but you're a young teenager. And and you've been, it was for 10 years. Is that right? Okay. Quite a bit of experience for you. So how, how many years were you a medication? So you've been in the health system since 2018, but you've had the symptoms for a while. Okay, fine. Yeah. I mean, Know, the medication is a difficult one a bit. They just psychiatry to agree to you stop in the medication. What did you do? And they're just psychiatry. Just, you know, did they let you start taking a medication or no, I know you mean, I mean, I've been on medication for like about 20 years and I think the side effects still affect me now, 20 years later, they still have a big effect on me. So I, I know where you're coming from. They, they are very powerful and it is, you know, it's kind of, I guess, I guess, I guess with you, it's a question of wait and see, because when you get older, perhaps your mental health symptoms might subside, you know, at that might, that might be the case. You know, I think it's dangerous for them to diagnose you with a life-long disorder at such young age. I think that is quite dangerous. You know, what did you think about that? Why did you come across as a yeah, I was just going to say you come across as an intelligent, smart young lady. What avenues have you looked him for? Alternative therapy, you know, overseeing, but not, you don't want to get medicated. What else have you looked into to help you? Okay. Okay. Because I mean, you know, I think I, I, you know, kind of agree with the medication only, it does say much. And then you've got to look in other aspects of your life to help keep your mental health, you know, like create like a art. I think, I mean, it's just something to, to solve your mind. Did you know what I mean? Something, whatever it can be like, I don't know. I mean you talk in school. Exactly. It's kind of the skills. Yeah. But that, that is kind of therapy. I think. I mean, you're expressing yourself, you are expressing your internal self to the outside world, you know? So that is that's important when, when you go in for a schizophrenia is a process where reality and unreality get mixed up or, you know, it's important to let your true self come out of your body. It's like, it's kind of like a, it's like I'm choosing in your mind. You know, I think, I think that it is, I think that it is useful. So tell me what you see, you, you do creative writing. Is that something you want to continue as a career as soon as you get older? Or is that yeah, Yeah. But that's, it's all about, you know, not everybody is Stephen King because the only one Stephen King, you know, in the world, you know, and if you've got a mental health condition, it's a, it's a things, a little more difficult, but people do you want to hear your story? You know, they want to hear what you've got to say and your take on the world with your experiences in it. You know, that's, that's a valid as an important as everybody else. And if you gotta create a spot, you know, you can, you know that that's, that's your thing. Rarely, you know? So tell me, what are your, what are your hopes for a future with considering you in your diagnosis? What are your, are you optimistic? I mean, what is, what is your outlook on life now? Yeah. I know. I know. Kind of what you mean. You've got to have that, that cynicals dark side at the edge view of life as well. If you've got a mental health condition, because you know, it's not all peaches, a nice cream, you know, there is a dark side to the live, you know, when, when you are in your own mind is attacking you. You've got a, you've got to realize you've got to be on your at times. I'd definitely, I agree with you, you know, but you know, I think, I think mental health is kind of like an altered state that you go into. So I can't give you a different life experience to like a normal person. You know, like a, like a normal woman might want to be like a Stepford wife or something. Whereas if you've got mental health condition, you've got like a different outlook on life because you are that different. Perhaps you can see things for what they really are. Would you want me to cause a lot of life isn't a lesion. There's a lot of 'em what was sold a lie because the truth people or people are afraid of to truth, you know, I don't know. I don't know. You know what I mean? Did you, do you have, have you had the hallucinated or something like that? You know, you know, I'm serious about, I feel that it's a little truth in everything that we experience and even, even a schizophrenia, as you know, there is a little treat for me because 'cause, that's just the way the world is, you know? But yeah, I saw, I don't know a tactile or at least the nation's I, I kind of had them a little bit, but yeah, it's just somewhat Yeah irritating. Okay. So I is, sorry, I think we can wrap it up here. Thank you for coming and speaking to me, you know, a lot of people are checking out of the interview, you've got to be quite brave and balsy to, to, to have it Interview one-to-one and there would be on the internet, you know, it was quite a ballsy thing to do. So I thank you for that because you know, and you know, well I've found you, there are other people and you're the only one is basically got through all of the stages to come and speak to me. So I think that's fantastic, you know, and may or may be, you know, a check up on you and next year we could have another chat if you, if you would like to do that, I'm I'm absolutely. You have the absolute pleasure to talk to you. You, you know, so it would be, it would be wordy. I think I figured it's important that, you know, we, we speak again to see how you're doing and you could have further reflections and just have another chat. What I'm going to do. I'm going to play some you, did you say you like, was it, was that we'll talk about the music, did you like, okay, so I'm going to play some fun, is it at the end of the Australia? And yeah, so that's great. So thank you very much. Sorry. And we'll chat again. Hello and welcome to another episode of interview with a schizophrenic. I am your host; Duncan Samarasinghe and today I have the great pleasure of having Brad from Oregon on the Pacific coast, in the United States of America. He has a diagnosis of Schizoaffective bipolar type, and he's in his early forties. So welcome to the show, Brad, how are you doing today? Absolutely. My pleasure. So what I want to ask you is, if you would give us a little bit of a history of what happened to yo to make you have that diagnosis, what were the triggers? What caused it and how you were treated, if you want to talk about that would be fantastic? What age did you join the army? What age did you join the army? Okay. Fine. And did you have any symptoms before that? Okay. Fine. So it started, it started while you were serving [your country], it started then. Okay, fine. Okay. So can Yeah please carry on, will be interesting to hear your story. Okay. So, okay. Find, so you spent 15 years in the Army, you were stationed in Iraq and you were hit by lightning bolt, which may have been a trigger for some type of psychosis and that eventually made you medically retired. Did you see much action when you in the army? Okay. Fine. But you were still in in a war zone. Okay, cool. So, so when you came, so obviously you came home to America and then that is when you found out that you were not, your mind wasn't working as it should, should be. After a lightning bolt. Okay. Fine. So why don't you tell us about that? Let's um. So you saw a psychiatrist. What happened there? Yeah. I mean, okay, fine. But there's a few things there. For one thing, once you get the diagnosis which are most comfortable with, which explains most of your symptoms, you can work on your recovery. And once you start working on your recovery you can work on building a better life. So yeah, obviously the, you know, let's say, you know, everybody with some sort of schizo type disorder goes through tremendous changes with their occupation, you know, I think that happens to pretty much all of them, you know? So, I mean, are you retired now? Is there anything that you want me to get back into the work in a working environment. I mean, you think that you can? Okay, fine. So I mean, when you are retired, how do you spend your time? Yeah. That's why you've got a blog about your life experiences with Schizoaffective in the Army, which is, you know, that's a fantastic, because I think the more and more that we talk about what we are going through and we make it so that people can hear our stories, you know, that it's going to break down the stigma surrounding schizo type disorders. You know, so that that's a great thing you are doing with your writing. And, you know, because if you, we have got to be heard you know? Is there a community of veterans? Because I know, you know, they were veterans, some of them do we develop psychosis due to being in a war zone. Is there a local community for veterans that you can attend or, or anything like that? Okay, fine. Yeah. I figured it must be a I. I've got no idea, but I think of, when you say a small town, I think of like in First Blood [Rambo] with Sylvester Stallone. Yeah, man, what's your town like, man? Thats nice. Can you talk about, can you be open about your mental health condition or is that not something you can do? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, because I definitely believe that it is that it's the thing to do because at the end of the day, it's just a medical condition. It's not as if it we're, wer'e witches or something, you know, it's not something, you know, it was kind of medieval that you are not allowed to talk about a medical condition that you have because people fear it, you know, I would say, yeah, we've got a talk about it. We got to be open. And I think you've got, you get to a certain age where you say, well, look, I'm not going to just keep it quiet. This is part of my identity. You know, this is part of who I am. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, yeah. But it also your older now, I mean, not that as well. And it is also sometimes you kind of just want to be introverted. I think, I think that's part of the condition that you just don't want people prying in. You know what I mean? I guess that, like, I think that's just comes the time when you think what the hell? I'm just going to say, say what I want and be who I am. So yeah. Let's me ask you some questions. How did, how did your, your friends react throughout your lifetime? Now that you've gone through the army and are now medically retired. How did your friends treat you? Yeah. Yeah. I think that's perfectly understandable. I think I'm, you know, for my own life story, I think when you're going through some difficult, like this, people are, your friends can distance you. And the reason I ask the question is because it's just, I just wanted to show people how hard it can be with this condition, because sometimes the ones close to us, can you just let us go, you know, I think it's, you know, so it just, that's the way that the way life is, is, you know, it's difficult, especially when you are in your twenties or thirties, you know, that it's, it's difficult for people to understand. Yeah. So tell me Brad what, what, when you are at home, do you do your experience? Are you experiencing psychotic symptoms? And if so, do you employ any coping methods to help you at soothe your mind? Yeah. I think home, you know, there's got to be a safe place if it's not a safe place, it's not home. So you know that it's gotta be. Brad, do you smoke? Do you take nicotine? Okay. Fine. Fine. Okay. Okay. Fine. I mean, because a lot of people with these conditions do take nicotine in some form or the other. So have you experienced being bullied? Yeah. Okay. And what sort of, what sort of hobbies do you enjoy while you're at home? Is that the apathy thing? I used to be a gamer as well, and to be honest I don't play as much as I used to. I can't, I just can't get it into it. Yeah. It's a strange, because I'm, you know, i love all that stuff but just can't get into it. Okay. That's good. Can you scuba dive locally? Yeah. I mean, you know, Yeah. you just got to take it easy. You've got to work on your recovery and you know, so I mean I guess that's fine. So I'm like, okay. I just want to ask you one more question. Is there anything I haven't asked that you would like to talk about that? Right. Did you feel that you've been discriminated? Yeah. Yeah. No, I know I've experienced it as well, so yeah. It's not a nice feeling And. Yeah. I mean that, that's kind of what, you know, I, that, that's why, you know, writing a blog and me through this podcast, I think it is so important that we, we have a voice and that way we just, we let people, if they said, you know, if somebody says what is schizophrenia? Well, you can read about it on the internet and you could read a blog. Well, you can listen to this podcast. You know, you can understand it, you can understand that you can hear it from the horse's mouth and, and you know it just to see that it's a condition. It's a mental health condition. It's not a personality trait. Yeah. Okay. Brad what sort of music do you like to listen to? What sort of genre? Okay. Fine. Punk music. Okay. Do you know, like any of that retrowave, synthwave stuff. It's like, it's like an inspired by the eighties synthesizer music. Do you know what I mean? Okay, fine. So eighties and nineties punk music. I shall look for that and see what I can do. Thank you very much for talking to me today. It was a real pleasure. No problem at all and I enjoy the rest of your day. 