my voices are obsessed with socialising. I'm autistic, or fragile to be exact. I am at my calmest when alone. they say that cortisol or dopamine makes things worse. so why is it worst when I am by myself?. the only thing I'm stressed over is not being able to do my hobbies. please tell my voices I refuse to socialise again until I get my hobby time. I've not had any in 5 years

God dam Restless Leg got me. I've been in bed the last hour semiconscious then my legs started to tingle and Boom! next thing you know I'm flipping around like a fish on a river bank. Man this sucks. I thought I was done with that. Although the shrink did warn me when she upped my dosage that it mite return. So I've had to get out of bed to take some pills.. and then wait for them to work. fortunately I don't have to get up early in the morning for anything. so it doesn't matter if I sleep late.

Hi all. I had a dream a couple of nights ago where I was battling ghosts. I said to myself "All I need now is for a feckin' succubus to attach itself to me". One showed up in a hypnogogic state after that. Yesterday I had manifestations of being touched sexually and these progressed until I realised I'd manifested a succubus. The feckin' things been following me round since yesterday with a feckin' hook attached to me wotsit and ropes. Bloody sore so's it is and nuthin' from my subconscious ( although things I may have picked up somewhere ) Ye see it won't go away even though I know it's not real? Why? Because I wanna throttle the little minx for what it's doing to me. So long as you have a legitimate feeling around them they linger ye know?

hello everyone i would like to talk to someone that has found a way to block voices coming from sound you hear all throughout your day. for example when someone is typing on a keyboard, hearing a dog bark, having a car drive past you, string a cup of coffee, or people having conversations from a distance. i pick up sounds and have conversations with them, most of the time they are always misinforming me to make mistakes and are always provoking me. i also get random bad smells on command about the things we talk about. so dont know if its something demonic or just someone messing around, i haven't been able to find out a solution to my problem.. these voices manifest as people i know or once knew and don't allow me to be very productive throughout my day since it's always just misinforming me and switching things around not allowing me to concentrate. i little about myself.. used to be a fully functional person until i started smoking at age 21 for 2 years until i quit and landed in a behavioral health clinic and was diagnosed with schizophrenia because i was hearing voices. i was prescribed Risperidone for a year but didn't fully recover. i would like to know if there's anyone out there that has taken anything that has helped them come back to reality, any experienced help is much appreciated. thank you

some people are better than others and some people have easy lives. its not equal at all and the grass IS greener on the other side

Anyone else have this on here? I feel I have to maintain good vibes, even reading your messages if a bad thought comes into my head I think while you wrote you knew so I have constantly manage my thinking it causes ocd like problems where I delete and retype letters so I dont cause offence. But its jst the way I think so spending less time on here wont help.

I called a friend of mine who happens to be very closed minded religious person and told him I was having a hard time with voices and anxiety. He told me that I needed to bind the devil and that it was the devil giving me all these symptoms. What the fuck! I don't need that shit! This isn't the middle ages. What's next is he going to do an exorcism on me? Is he going to bleed me? I needed compassion and he gave me bulshit.

I have been having negative symptoms of akathisia, lack of motivation, emotional blunting and avolition which I never had after my first episode back in 2015. I was on Abilify back then and I still felt driven enough to do well at what I set my mind to. After my second episode and the formal diagnosis of schizophrenia I feel empty and I have a complete lack of motivation when it comes to important stuff like careers and relationships. I understand why I should take my anti-psychotic medication so as to prevent relapsing (hopefully) but the negative symptoms are affecting my life in a detrimental way which I think is caused by the medication because I never had this in the past. Also I have not had positive symptoms for over 4 years now (I don't hear voices, hallucinate or have outlandish delusions). I have heard stories and read articles in the past about people who cope with psychosis and schizophrenia without need for medication and they can go on to lead normal lives. I was wondering if it would be a reasonable goal to aim to taper off my medication with my condition and if so how long it could take to come off the medication?

pain hunger sickness anxiety all i want to do is sleep but i can't do the either there is no answer one of us would have of found it by now but this board is full of lost souls why do we got on buggered if i know.

Voices seem too becoming from my right shoulder blade it's strange. I'm sick of all these things happening to me.

I remember that people would sometimes make fun out of voice hearers and there were many insults towards schizophrenia It’s a really sad stigma to exist. Some schizophrenics are tormented inside their minds and instead of giving them compassion we are taught that these people are dangerous. I’m not long into my diagnosis but I’m already seeing how you lose your value to others in some sense if you are considered delusional or are hearing voices. We have to be careful

I've spent the entire day watching the Omen films and thinking about Good and evil. which is pretty weird. even for me. and now I'm panicking that I can't find my Bible. its in here somewhere but I can't find it.

Three psychotic episodes and eight hospitalizations. The last hospitalization was over two years ago. I've been "stable" on meds for over two years except for negative symptoms, anxiety, panic attacks, and mild depression. I'm still almost constantly worried about becoming psychotic and/or manic again. If I hear an unusual or unexpected sound, I wonder if I'm hallucinating. I have tons of flashbacks from my psychotic episodes where I have rushes of delusional thinking. The delusions don't persist, but it makes me worry that they might take over again. When I have a positive thought, I worry about becoming manic. The anxiety around this has really taken a toll. I walk or pace back and forth for four or more hours every single day to deal with the anxiety. The walking distracts me. I feel like I've forgotten what "normal" feels like.

I have schizophrenia, normal symptoms…think I have god level intelligence, probably not human, Russians might kidnap me at any moment. And I am bored and depressed mostly just laying in bed all day staring at the endless scrolling of YouTube shorts including Jordan Peterson, Andrew Tate and Elon musk. I need a how to crazy for dumbies…what do you guys do with yourselves?

I'm having severe anxiety and positive symptoms. and it's been a struggle for me to really take my medications. A part of it is my reality is not the best right now and I miss my friends. and I don't feel understood. I don't want to take meds because they'll go away again.

I have some very frequent hallucinations, usually a strange cat following me around, or people just walking past me and saying hi. I kinda like these ones. I have a lot more worse ones but these two i used to be so scared of. I usually don’t have a hard time telling if these two are real are not, they’re usually “distorted” in some way. People have always looked at me weirdly for responding to the things they cant see, I’m just starting to not care and I’m starting not to be ashamed of this. The cat that follows me around and people walking past are just bring some sort of comfort now? The feeling is not exactly “comfort” but i don’t know how else to explain the feeling. I hope the cat never goes away, for the people, i don’t really care if they start to appear less and less. Has anyone else experienced this?

How does anyone handle the emotionally numbing side effects of the meds? I never liked people to begin with, but could always at least tolerate them. Now, I can't even tolerate them. Friendships take too much energy, and I'm just not willing to put forth that much effort for anything. How do you all handle this numbing effect? I can't stand it!

I’m 29m been unemployed and living with my dad for the past 3 years. He knows I have schizoaffective depressive disorder but he thinks I’m just being lazy and undisciplined and that I’m just not trying hard enough to muscle through the symptoms and get a job. He made a huge mess in the laundry room today and told me to clean it up. I ALWAYS clean up after myself and my own messes, so I said “no, because that’s your mess” and he blew up on me, screaming all this shit at me, that I’m a lazy bum and that I’ve been taking advantage of him and not giving anything back… I can’t stand this anymore I might kill myself. I wish I had a father that actually loved me. I need to get a job to get away from him but idk if I can. I can‘t fucking do this anymore.

There has to be another way for me to be stable. These pharmacies wanna keep us sick. I’m tired. Constant heart palpations and muscle spasms. Idk what to do. I cannot function without them and I the voices won’t fully go away with them. I’m on lowest dose after begging my doc to lower it. I wanna be normal so bad. I can’t keep doing this. I don’t want drugs. I never wanted them. Fuck schizophrenia. I can’t imagine being fucking 45 taking these fucking capsules. It’s fucked. Beyond fucked. As the days go by they keep prescribing. It’s hell. I’m living a hell.

Yesterday I was walking in the night. And I thought the moon was walking with me. Then, I realised that it was actually the clouds that were moving in the opposite direction. Making me have the illusion that the moon was walking with me. It was a feeling of awe whilst it lasted.

What goes on in the mind of the schizophrenic that makes his life so disabilitating

My family is full of extroverts. I just have many days where I dont feel like socalizing. Extroverts annoy me sometimes. I love my family but we have so many get togethers that its overwhelming sometimes. Can anyone relate

I can sometimes but not always. And I hallucinate without command

