When I'm drowsy, I have conversations with my mom that only take place in my head. Sometimes she's in the room or in the kitchen. Perhaps when more awake, I sometimes vocalize a final phrase, then I realize or my mom tells me the conversation was unreal. I just can't find an explanation on the net about this, need help.

I injured my ankle quite bad in July and its still not better, I'm seeing a surgeon in 2 weeks. I can't go out on my own, I can hardly walk and I'm in constant pain. It's really getting me down. Having nothing to do all day is not helping my mental health. I'm feeling anxious, no motivation, not eating right, not sleeping properly, just generally fed up with life.

Well, I'm 47, and all my life was met by changes in environment, people, places, since I was a kid. I was diagnosed as a schizoaffective late in my life. All the insecurity and progressive loneliness brought me to this day, unemployed and alone. DId I shun my few friends and former co-workers? Maybe. I only told two friends of my illness. My bizarre behaviour must be the culprit, I guess. Can someone relate to this?

Hi I haven't posted here in a while. I'm starting to have less control over my emotions, I've recently been diagnosed with a herniated disc in my back and it's effecting my mood, feeling physically sick and emotionally unstable. I'm not having voices thank God! But I'm starting to cry a lot and feeling worthless especially when I pray. I have schizoeffective disorder depressive type. I hate it when I start feeling down.

My motivation levels get so low I can't even do things I need or like to do. I'm seeing someone to talk about it on the 7th. I don't think it's depression because I am in a decent mood. I could make goals and plans all day, and when the time comes I just don't follow through with them. No hallucinations or delusions, just a lack of motivation these days. It's good I have close family who can help. Is anyone else struggling with a schizoaffective illness?

I'm struggling with keeping my inside self in reality. I use my senses all the time lately to make sure that what I'm seeing and feeling is real. Inside me though I'm anxious, and reality feels like it's melting away. I'm not experiencing visual or auditory hallucinations. My senses tell me that what I see, hear, touch, taste, etc. is real. I have that self-awareness. But it's like whatever touch of reality there is inside me is melting or struggling to stay afloat, as if my body is a mask. Does anyone else feel like this?

so i have been schizoaffective for a while now ive been looking over medical notes. i have been on like a lot of medication ALOT. the one that worked best for me was quetiapine and risperidone. i think i might try and get back on that combination again. any how i thought someone had hacked my phone last night so i had to hear two voices through my phone saying how i should smash it as i was undeserving of nice things i didnt but i had to switch from phone which i put on airoplane mode and listened through my mp3 player. how does anyone else cope when they are becoming psychotic other than to take medicine. i knew it hadnt been hacked but it still wasnt nice.

Started the day with anxiety about bloodwork which I'm supposed to go do tomorrow. Tonight, I just talked to my family and felt completely misunderstood, and ignored. This isn't normal, I'm also irritable today which is a sign of regressing. I was trying to say things and felt interrupted constantly then didn't have the energy to respond when they stopped talking. I'm taking my meds fine and see the therapist again on the 25th. I feel bored and lonely after dinner, but fine now. Knowing that my communication abilities are messed up tonight frustrates me. I'm probably going to be irritable at replies but I'm struggling and thought I'd check the forum again. I have no one to really talk to, I don't do well on phone anyway.

I struggle to make sense of my relationships. It's hard for me to maintain a balanced view of friends and family regardless of my frame of mind. I will go negative if I don't distract myself. I will go hypo if I have to do too much and can't escape. My inner voice loop will start if I have anticipatory anxiety and don't do grounding exercises and take meds. Without enough of an AP, the voice that isn't mine gets started. It's so hard. People confuse me. They push me. I don't always know how to push back so they stop and see the pressure they're putting on me. My mind becomes a tornado, my chest gets tight and heavy, and my eyes can't make sense of how people are acting and what they're saying. I look around and wonder if the world is real. Does anyone else feel this way?

I have depressive type schizoaffective disorder so I'm speaking from that perspective. In my opinion people with schizoaffective disorder tends to grasp reality a little bit different way than average people. Maybe your friends and family doesn't try to push you on purpose. Maybe they just don't understand your limitations and inner experience very well. If you feel there's too much happening and it's overwhelming, try telling others how you feel and maybe go to a next room to take a little brake. In the past I had problems with anxiety and panic attacks, and they made me feel something like you are describing. Panic attacks alone made the world feel unreal for me. I'm not saying that you are experiencing either of those but maybe it would be worth of asking from your psychiatrist what they think about this.

They handcuffed me, i still haven't got over it and it's been 6/7 months. I feel embarassed, and pissed off at the police and i hate them now. I wasn't getting out of the car after threatening suicide so they had to take me out and handcuff me even though i wasn't resisting. I hate my life even though i love life.

I have a therapist I think she is working freelance or something she isn't with the original company I first saw her at when i began my therapy sessions with her anyways I need that paperwork for social security so they can keep giving me my benefits like my insurance and things. My mom is calling to get it sorted out tmrw I'm just letting her handle it because my mom knows more than me I'm only 25 years old she is in her 60s she has been around longer anyways the paperwork might be faxed over to my house from my therapist from her in home office anyways I'm so afraid my mom might sneak and read everything I have told my therapist for the past year. I told her she can't do that that's a huge invasion of privacy anyways it needs to be done though so I can still receive my disability benefits because if I dont have insurance and can't get my medication which is crucial to me staying mentally healthy.btw the paperwork is being mailed from the post office in my neighborhood plus being faxed from the house I'm still worried though my mom might read my paperwork any advice? She told me she wouldn't but don't trust her sometimes.

Anyone else struggle with seeing neon trails, after-images, and what appears to be tv static or tiny dots over everything, all the time? I’ve had this symptom since I was sixteen and remember the day it started. Since then ZERO medications have helped diminish or get rid of it. The colors are green and purple and it is everywhere. Worse when I am psychotic or very anxious. I don’t think it counts as a hallucination but it’s certainly distracting and maddening at times. I’m 41 and have been on soooo many antipsychotics. I’m considering clozapine but my dr is hesitant due to some health issues. Is this just untreatable? Do you think clozapine could help?. Anyone else experience this?

I need help, I know I do. I just really can't afford it. This rant/vent is all over the place so excuse me for that. Last night I was told how I will never be loved, how worthless I am, how the guy I like will never love me, how I will always be alone/unwanted, how I should just kill myself. I hate my stupid brain, I hear the voices of people I know telling all kinds of mean/nasty things. I strangled myself again, it's the only way to shut them up. It's a very strong urge to strangle myself or punch myself. I don't want to die but the voices need to stop. I'm running on 5 hours or less of sleep, my job is super stressful and I have beliefs/delusions that they are out to get me or find a way to fire me. I snapped at a supervisor because they were painting me out to be a liar. I can't take it anymore. I can't afford to be hospitalized because there is no one to help pay and I have no money saved to pay bills. I'll lose my phone, car insurance, and car. I need those things to feel like everyone else. (My parents used to take them as a form of punishment before I was able to buy my own). I dont know what to do aside from waiting until I eventually kill myself. I'm so fucking scared.

Hello, this is my first time posting here. I was diagnosed this year, but I have had symptoms for over a decade, I think. I'm not even sure if this related to this disorder, but I have had a recurring experience and was wondering if anyone else had experienced anything similar. I get this thing where it's like I'm in two places at the same time. Almost like a second location sort of overlaps with my perception of where I actually am. It's disorientating, although I don't find it particularly distressing or disturbing. It's kind of hard to explain, so I'm sorry if this doesn't make a lot of sense.

Sometimes when I hear voices I’ll hear 2 of them speak at once and sometimes I’ll hear a large crowd. The crowd normally causes a headache though.

Anyone else's psychiatrist ask them "do the voices come from one side?" or "which side to the voices come from?" Mine always asks this and I'm curious why, but afraid to ask. Like, I don't know they sound like they're coming from all kinds of places... Next to me, in front of me, or usually directly behind me. It's one among the string of questions she asks me about the voices during our appointments, but I get worried that it's a question meant to "trip me up" and catch me faking I know this is an unsubstantiated fear, I just can't help but be afraid this is what she's doing. It especially bothers me today since this morning I saw a post basically saying that they ask all these questions to weed out fakers.

I have schizoaffective depressive type : I was diagnosed when I was twelve and went to special youth Early psychosis intervention treatments and im 27 now and still struggling but starting to slowly get my life together ..juggling work, school, and medications and self care. I really wanted to find a support group or community that understood and started going to hearing voices support groups but im super excited to join this online community

I was diagnosed with Schizoaffective with the BPD subtype earlier this year and I love music, but I just wanted to say that the album "A Moon Shaped Pool" by Radiohead really speaks to me and I wanted to maybe expose people on this sub to it that may have never heard it before in hopes that they might feel as okay as I do when I listen. It talks about being a "Dreamer" and being lost and at times unwanted and I don't know I just really feel a lot when I listen and it makes me feel okay for being a little off. Best of luck to everyone in here. We are beautiful for our differences.

Hi, I have schizoaffective bipolar subtype. I know I should consider myself fortunate bc I graduated with a b.s. in biology and psychology (though I barely scraped by, and struggled while undiagnosed). But now I’ve been jobless for almost a year and idk what to do with my life anymore. I don’t want to be part of the jobless statistic but I feel like I’m falling into it as I know how debilitating this illness is. I wish there was some type of guide or resources out there that would explain what jobs might be good for people like us, but I haven’t found any. So in any case, What are some jobs you’ve managed to do that bring your life fulfillment? Or what are some jobs given my academic background & sza diagnosis that might be suitable for me to do? Any advise would really help right now. Thank you in advance

Hi everyone. I have schizoaffective disorder bipolar type and I take 100mg of seroquel for it. It actually works much better than several other atypical antipsychotics I've been on over the past two years; however, I'm a bit concerned about some of the side effects. Lately I've been noticing some severe cognitive issues for my age (25) that I didn't have before. For example, I recently went to a store and the cashier told me the total was $23 and I gave her $20 in cash. She rung me out anyway, maybe she felt sorry for me, but I didn't realize the mistake until I was on my way home and confirmed it with the receipt. There are a few other examples as well. I've also had weight gain and high cholesterol despite trying to eat better, high enough a psychiatrist wanted to put me on meds for the cholesterol but I declined. I'm also very sensitive to medications and occasionally end up in the hospital on new ones especially SSRIs. With that said, for those of you who've had success on seroquel but switched, what medicine did you find success on? I have a psychiatrist appointment tomorrow, but I want to be prepared with some alternatives if he wants to take me off it. I have been on abilify, latuda, ripasidone, and geodon in the past with little success compared to seroquel.

So I was on and off meds since diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder. There was a time when I felt controlled without them, so I pursued my quest for enlightnement. It all went well until I tried Kundalini Yoga. After activating it's energy, I suffered the Kundalini syndrome. What is incredible is that as more and more westerners go through this, psychiatrists are totally blind to even what is called the biology of Kundalini. They call it a psychotic attack and I (as many more), feel uncomprehended. As antipsychotics do their work, I feel depressed, whithout motivation. Only apathy sets in. I know what I went through, but can´t share with anyone.


