A little Duncan them a home to own. All right. Just, you know, trying to get by here. Well, I live in a very, a rural area. I don't know. Have you ever heard of the Amish? Yeah, so I live in an area actually where there's, there's a lot of all mish and, you know, very, very rural. And so we, we haven't been hit too hard by COVID, but maybe as a, like a percentage of the population, but it's been mostly concentrated and like people that work in like agriculture and due to the low and low population density, it, it hasn't been a, to a two worries. And thankfully, uhh, and the city is that it's been a, you know, quite a bit, quite a bit worse, so, Well, I'll actually, I'll go back pretty far. Hear when I, when I was a child, I had always, you know, had some issues with, you know, being different. They, they were confused because it was, I was gifted academically in certain areas and then a, at a deficit and other areas. And I always dealt with a, a, a higher amount of a paranoia. So for example, I remember when I was a kid, I thought I heard the voices outside of my aunt's house and we were having a spend over there. So it was probably like eight or nine years old. I would, I would pick up a, one of my siblings, I would go and they would place him in the doorway and that I would pick her up. Another one of them placed them, you know, a few feet away. So the, of being that, if someone was coming in to try to hurt me, that they would have to, you know, step in all of these children in order to get to me. And, you know, I had always a, you know, kind of dealt with certain things like that, always extra vigilant. And so finally I had a, you know, here in here in the States, so we don't have, Anything like maybe I have a baby. I don't know if, if you're in the UK with the NHS are, you know, you know, universal care, we have none of that. So I had a no health insurance. I wasn't able to see a doctor until when we moved from Texas, which Texas was a very conservative state in your, your options are for health care are very limited. Uhm, if you don't know, I have a certain income, so moved to Pennsylvania and Pennsylvania has a much more, a generous, a health care system. And my mom's job a covered as a, for insurance. So I was able to go see a psychologist. And that really is, I would say a, I don't know, I apprehension when it comes to diagnosing, you know, children, you know, is having a Schizophrenia or anything like that. So they are initially diagnosed with Asperger's, you know, autism spectrum disorder. And some of the, some of that had never quite made sense to me, 'cause, you know, I was always dealt with, you know, the incredible paranoia and anxiety and I there's actually been a few times in hindsight that I look back and I'm like, Oh, it was probably in psychosis. So I managed to get through high school. I went to a university in Hawai'i for about a year. And then I, I became convinced that a, the us government was going to have to default on its debt. So I had saved up some money and I, I actually, I flew to a kurgastan in central Asia. Okay. And I lived there for a couple months and that kind of bounced back and forth between there. And I ended up spending in total about two years over there and I was working, as I said, I was working with a, I mean, it was, it was a port was a pseudo work 'cause it was kind of like a volunteer, but it was kind of like work position over there as an English teacher. And I also had a, I don't want to make, to also make it abundantly clear. I don't come from a family with like a ton of money. Oh when I was a child, we were a lower middle class and now my family is middle of middle-class, but I had, I did manage to go to Brazil during that time to, in my travels, managed to go to a few places and I really enjoyed the culture and my dad, my experiences in Kurdistan. In fact, I believe returning from kurgastan to the United States is one of the biggest mistakes I ever made in my life. That, that, that I would say that, yeah, that, that was one of the biggest I. I, I have a theory that people with, you know, on the Schizophrenia spectrum do better in countries that are more community oriented and more traditional than a modern Western countries where they just want to jam your pack for the pills. I remember I remember reading and I don't know, you know, it was a strong enough, they'll try not to get too such hard to hear, but I remember reading, for example, the found a no significant difference in countries like India and other developing countries between the general population of Schizophrenia, but in the us or in the UK, there was about a 20 year difference in life expectancy between individuals with my diagnosis and the general population. Yeah. I've, I've, I've heard that, but I also think that I do you deal with it with that issue on occasion, but I will say, I think it really too, is the reaction to the people around you. Right? So for example, maybe somewhere like India or, or other places in Asia that might be considered like a spiritual gift, you know, whereas in our countries, it's, it it's immediately like, okay, no we're taking it. I mean, really that, uhh kind of shows that the type of thinking that like, Oh, we're going to make you better by taking you away from everybody and you know, isolating, you know, but so I haven't made this trip back and forth and I eventually decided that I was going to return to the United States and I had wanted to Well to complete my education. You know, I had, I had wanted to get ahead and I thought, okay, I've got to return to the U S get my education and then, and then leave again. Well, I, I returned to the U S and we, we ended up moving to a, a, you know, a more rural area and I was just a, you know, it, it was isolated, you know, a lot more, wasn't able to interact with people. And I, I don't currently have the ability to drive. So, you know, in the U S you had to drive all over the place, unless your somewhere like in New York city, that's a very, a wide country. And the public transit is a Bismal. It's really a, in, in most cases outside of the city, public trans, that has just non-existent. And, you know, I, I just, I, I started spiraling and I, it really, I mean that, there's a period of about two years in there from, from the end of 2016 to the beginning of 2018. That really just seemed like a blur to me and, and, and turn it in 2017. My, my memory of that at that time is clouded. And when I think of certain things that I thought in that time and my emotional state, just none of it makes any sense to me. And so I, I, I, it, around may of 20, a 2017, I was, I was going through a difficult time as I've finally managed to finish my associates degree after like four years of studying and finishing it up a two year community college degree. And that, that was just because I jumped around so much. And so finally finishing up, but it was really going through a rough time. And I had a, a week and a half looking back, I think it would have been a new episode of psychosis. I was not able to sleep for about a week. I was just a, on constant, you know, wired and not able to sleep and, you know, getting paranoid about things and, you know, that sort of thing. And so my, my meditation at the time, I know they still, they were still saying, Oh, you are autistic spectrum. And so there are still seeing that at that time. And, and, you know, living in a rural area of the quality of services you get are, are pretty abysmal as far as, you know, like a will. For example, later, I ended up trying to get a therapist in my local area, a they had no availabilities for over a year. You, you couldn't get in to see one for over a year or so. I, I randomly May, 2017. I spontaneously decided to take a trip and go visit some friends in France that I had, actually, there was a girl. She is still my friend. She lived in a kurgastan and the, now she lives in France, inside of the spontaneously, bought a ticket to France. And I really did not have the money to be doing that. I barely had enough money to scrape by and buy this ticket of France. So I go over to France and the whole trip was just a blur to me. I, I see photos of it. And I really don't remember a large portions of it. Or do you feel I think so. Yeah. I think I would say so. And I'm, I don't, if it was just like, I don't want to say it like a, you know, her heard a voice or anything, but it was just like, I had the strong feeling like, Oh, if I, if I just leave, if I get to go to Europe, Oh, this is what it's going to be like. And of course it was nothing. Like I had thought of my head. So I come back from that trip and I was even more, more dejected in an, a worse place than what I went. And so things just kind of carried on like that from I'm from about May, 2017 and then the November or beginning of November, 2017, I heard, you know, managed to get a little bit of money and I decided to take a trip to Costa Rica. So I take a trip, this trip to Costa Rica and there, and the, the, the entire time I had lived in Kurdistan. And I had never thought about this first off, I want to say kurgastan is actually a very safe country. The, the murder rate is like a lower or equivalent of like the United States. If you are white or Asian, or you can walk around at night without any, any issues, because they are there going to suspect that you're a local and they don't, they don't mess with locals. And if they do you think you're a foreigner, you know, you might run into some trouble, but generally are very like low rate, have a, you know, a random, you know, a violent crime, you know? So you go to Costa Rica, which it, they always say, Oh, is such a safe country, has such as high as a country, but it's still in Latin America, the most dangerous region of the world as far as filing crime goes. And so I go there and my plane gets in at like, I don't know, a, I would say one or two in the morning. And I couldn't check in to my, to my hotel until, you know, like noon. Right. So I had about like eight hours. So I'm not thinking like, everybody is just telling me how Costa Rica. So say of Costa Rica is a safe, I'm not thinking that like, Oh, it's a bad decision. May be to walk around Costa Rica at like three in the morning in, in downtown San Jose, Costa Rica at three in the morning. But that's not a thought that's occurring to me. I'm also thinking that like, Hey, everything's going to be open because it's just a quick, it took us to Rica. This is a tourist country. Right. So I'm going to think there's places I could hang out. Well, as soon as I get there, man, everything is closed. Okay. And it is looking sketchy. All right. It's looking sketchy. Like before I went to Brazil, I was very mindful. 'cause, you know, you always hear about, like, to be very careful in Brazil. You know, Brazil has a lot of violent crime. So I was very careful. I had all my stuff to a tee, but with Costa Rica was a bit lax. So a walking in a sitting, sitting down at this park bench and I see these two teenagers, I would say they're like 17, 18, you know, somewhere in there. I see them walk from across the street there with a group of people. I see them walk across the street. When you cross car a crosswalk, walking into the park, and then they turn directly in front of me to like start walking towards me. And a, this is really what kind of started causing me to like, you know, really good at, because, well, you have to remember, you know, for most of the year I had already been in like, not a real clear mental and they turn and they start walking towards me and I see one of them has a gun in his hand. Okay. And I'm the one walks up to the left of me and the one other one walks up to the right of me. Now, I'm not going to go into like my whole background as far as stuff. But I come from a family that has, you know, a lot of military And, you know, like combat experience and, you know, training and that sorta stuff. So that this guy is standing in the left of me. He has a gun and the other guy's standing up on the right of me. He is he's unarmed. And I'm sitting on this park bench and I have in my pockets, I have about $500 of cash. But not only that, I have a bunch of other stuff, man. I have like a Bible, a notebook. Pencil's my phone. Umm, but my, my, my pockets were the most, as far as my backpack and that in my backpack, I had my laptop and a ton of close. So I'll get to why this is important then. But this kid walks over and he's like waving the gun and my face. And they're like trying to reach it in my pocket. I'm just like, no. And then I was like, man, I would of been screwed that for a, a a hundred dollars. It was like paying for the most of my trip. So I'm like, no, no. It was like a bat in the things that were in the guy I started getting there. I started getting more hostile and he's like pointing a gun at me, but it's not right in my face. And that makes sense. You don't know. I mean, And, I don't know why it happened, but it should, it was just like, I'm just completely went to a totally a psychotic, uhm, I just grab the top of the gun and pointed it away from me and started punching this kid in his face. Yes. And yeah, he fell down to the ground and then I turned around and he said something to it at the time I speak some Spanish now, but at the time I spoke and the Spanish and he felt in the ground and he started yelling and my, my phone and my backpack are still sitting on the park bench and I, she turned around and the other guy starts run it. And I don't even know. I didn't even think about it, man. I just, I wanted to do harm and I just, I held up the gun and I think I ended up thinking it was a real gun because I just started shooting. I just put up the gun. I just, I, I just started on loading in his direction, but it was so shaky. I don't think so. Anything and yeah. So I throw the gun on the ground, which I wasn't really smart through the gun on the ground. The, the kid that I had knocked down, he gets up, he runs over, he tries to grab my backpack in my phone. So I started chasing after him and he drops my backpack. He ends up getting away with my phone and get my backpack back. And I turned around and I had thrown the gun on the ground. And some kid that was there was fighting with this kid over the gun's. So I went and it jumped in a rural fight and stuff. And I know that guy that was empty. So I didn't like, I wasn't too concerned. I just kind of backed off on like the, I told the other guy to back off and the kid just ran away with his gun. And I ended up finding another guy. We called the police and went to the police for the police report. But I was the man that just really messed me up. That whole thing, just, it messed me up. And I went home and I started, I, I started getting a bit like delusions, but I mean, I I've always had a delusion, but they were, these were really severe and a waking up not having good sleep Thank and everybody was, you know, kinda out to get me. And, you know, just, So it was just a general feeling and it was, I actually see this was in Costa Rica and that this happened and I, I actually, it was supposed to be there for two weeks. I cut my trip short and I cut my trip short and I went to a, I went back to the States and so I started having panic attacks all the time, too. It was a general feeling of unsafety. And then also too, the feeling that people were, were trying to destroy my soul, we're trying to evade my head. And in fact, I remember thinking after they had tried to Rob me, I legitimately remember thinking that like these guys were demons and I, I pulled out my, my Bible when I was like, you know, like you to get away from your demons and stuff after they had run away. And yeah. So I, you know, I get back to the States and everything started to spiral and Matt and I knew something was seriously, seriously wrong that I, you know, that some of the thoughts that I was having. So yeah, I went to my, when I went to my family doctor and I was like telling her, like, I, I, I don't know how to articulate, but I just listened. I'm not feeling like myself. And at the time I wasn't calling it a paranoia, I was just calling it anxiety. And I said, you know, I'm having this ridiculous anxiety that all the stuffs going to happen. And she was like, okay, so what antidepressant do you want? She was asking me, what, what, what medication, what medication do I want? Like, I'm not a doctor. Yes. How does that make you feel when they, when they say that So she didn't even, she didn't even refer me to like a psychiatrist are, you know, or anything she just said, Oh, what, what w when do you want it? You can to take any of these. And I was like, well, I don't like, what's the, you know, what's the difference. Like, I, I literally, you know, I don't know. And, and, and again, they were just the, you know, like anti-depressants or whatever. And so that happened. And then I went to my therapist and I was like, listen, I think I might need to go to the hospital. You know, I'm, I'm having, you know, these thoughts about violence. And I really think I should go to the hospital. In fact, I actually saw him the day that my incident happened and I don't, I don't really want to go into too much detail, but what ended up happening was I was in a completely like disassociating. And just really, it's hard to exactly explain the state of mind, because when I think back to what I'm like, man, that's not me, but I was actually, I was involved in a shooting and with a family member and I, I was the shooter and I ended up, I got charged with they, they put my face on the front of the local paper and they tried to a say, you know, call me, I was guilty of a attempted homicide as what they were you going to try and charge her with that overall, all of the stuff that I was facing. And I was looking up to 62 years in prison and they, you know, like obviously I got arrested and, you know, I was treated pretty horribly a N you know, the legal justice system, at least as far as like, you know, actually in jail, like what they do over here in jails. If they say you are suicidal, they take off all your clothes and they give you this Lake tribal, like the best thing. And, you know, you can't, you know, you say you can't tear it or whatever, but you're completely naked besides this thing. It's a very, it's a, it was really to humanizing. And they also, they talk about the, the guards, talk about you in a very dehumanizing way, and there's minimal, you know, mental health stuff. And the other thing too is they had messed up my paperwork. Okay. So when I had gotten a, a, an initial paperwork, they had said I was being charged with the homicide, not attempted homicide. And I'm like, wait you in there dead, like in my head for about eight hours, I'm thinking my life's over. I've, you know, I've killed someone. And I'm just like, dude, I, and, and it, it was devastating. 'cause, you know, this person is quite close with them And. And even though it, you know, there had been issues there. And, and I'm thinking like, dude, to this day, what is this? I think the other thing that I want to say to is the police act a completely, ah, you know, unethically because they come in and I don't remember everything because you know that again, that whole thing is very touch and go, but I do remember being in the hospital and they gave me some kind of pills. Right. And then later, you know, the law enforcement comes into question of me. So basically I spent about two weeks, two weeks there. And then I, that I got ended up going to the hospital and not getting hospitalized. And they get a gut on what you saw the doctors and they are. And then that's when I received my actual diagnosis and I Schizophrenia. Yeah. Well, anyways, so then I, I was in it, wasn't there for about two weeks and it was actually a pretty, a pretty productive, did a pretty good, you know, getting a good try and get better. And then I spent the next couple of months living with my aunt Oh because of, you know, the situation. I mean, I had an ankle monitor up and then, and then a, my, it was the most, you know, thank God, you know, praise be to have to go out. I ended up, ah, things resolved themselves in about the best way it could be resolved and all my stuff got significantly downgraded. And so I, I, besides the time I had already spent in bed and, you know, in confinement that there wasn't really a dish, well, I did have to do about like five months of house arrest. And then now I'm finishing up my first sentence, which was the 24 months of a probation, which included the house arrest. And then now I have another two years to go and then I'll be completely free, so. Oh, a a a hundred percent. Yeah. I remember thinking of like a thing or entities we're trying to get inside of my head in destroy and the, the, the, the people we're controlling these entities. Well, that's totally irrelevant in that moment. You're like, its just like, you're just trying to survive. Honestly, I made them, I'm pretty optimistic right now, you know, and God willing I have in the process have a couple of things. One of the things of, of done as I've actually learned a, a fair bit of Spanish and I had, do you have a girlfriend? And I also, I've been trying to teach myself it and, you know, I'm currently like disabled, but it's, it's my, my goal and my, my dream to eventually be able to work in the it sphere. And also a, in the process of joining the, a Roman Catholic church and really try to, you know, just, I realized for me the biggest thing that I don't want to be careful how I say this, but everything happening like I did. And then me finding out what the, what the issue really was, has actually enabled me to really get my life a, on a more even kill, you know, on a, on a more level area. So I'm not like a, a, I would say before I was kind of like a, a, a, a pinball or, you know what I mean? Like, it was like, here, here, here, here, here, you know, like just all over the place. And now, you know, I mean, I would just add a couple of things. I want to, ah, you know, be able to work, but I would also like to volunteer and be able to offer, to help people and to try to, you know, try to do a, something, something positive. <inaudible>.I'm doing okay. Yes. I'm going to wait a while before I get my vaccine. I think so, too. Okay. Well, it, it starts out like dark, like really, really dark. It all happened. I wouldn't say it all happened. I would say it mostly started when I was like in middle school. Cause like I was starting to feel depressed and I was starting to feel lonely. Like no one wanted to be my friend. I felt like the friend of the darkness, the shadow, I couldn't fit in. I mean, despite so many achievements, my brain was telling me there's something wrong. I am broken. No one wants to be my friend. I belong in the friendship dumpster. Just managed to get worse, going into high school. It was getting harder because then I decided to keep my depression from everyone. And then it started to work its way into paranoia and PTSD. And I kept on getting in trouble with most of my teachers because of it. I kept on scaring people. I even went to school one day and it's like, I baked my entire class to turn off their cell phones because I kept on getting this message that said, people are listening to, to you through your friends, cell phones, your classmates cell phones. And I'm like, okay, we have to turn them off. I was that paranoid. I didn't start to see a doctor until after I graduated from high school because that's where my problems progressed even further. So after I graduated I decided good college Turns out I couldn't do college Because my mental health was still in pending me to do Cause my PTSD managed to get worse. So that, that was bad. No, I had trauma happened from my childhood. I just, I mean, I just bottled everything down and tried to pretend that everything was okay. So I had a lot of repressed memories as well and I wouldn't open it, opened that box and wouldn't talk to anybody. I couldn't trust anybody that I was around, not in including my own guidance counselor in high school or my teachers for that fact. And then after I dropped out of college, yeah, I dropped out of college because I decided to take care of my mental health first. So at the age range of my mental health, we're looking at from six, 18 to 20. I, I tried to look at it like it was a jigsaw puzzle and try to figure out how all the pieces fit, How I can manage to carry at least some of the burden or at least get it to stand horizontally, not vertically. It was hard. It was very, very hard in the beginning. And eventually more things piled on one of my friends from high school who was supposed to graduate the same year. They committed suicide and I just completely lost it. I managed to gain half myself though to build myself up. Most of that percentage, I got it halfway built up so I could say, okay, I can move on from this. And then like in the middle of me moving on something else, even heavier on top of that bill and I felt like that I was being pulled like a vacuum effect into outer space or through a black hole. I don't know how many of your listeners like to listen to Lincoln park? Okay. Then they probably know what happened to the lead singer of Lincoln park. Yes. That, that's the big thing that I'm talking about. That that affected me heavily because I grew up listening to them. He became like a second father cause I grew up without a father. So when he committed suicide, I just completely lost everything. Lost my bearings, lost focus. I wanted to give up on the world and just chase him to the other side. And so five days after that is where we really ran into trouble because I tried to do just that. I attempted suicide myself. First I was unconscious for days and then I ended up going to the hospital after that, then I got formally diagnosed with PTSD and depression. And then from there we just worked our way into dissociative identity disorder and schizophrenia. So no, I have PTSD, depression, schizophrenia, and to associative identity disorder all in one box. First? I was admitted to the regular hospital before they put me in the Psych. We head Dr. Ward, the crazy town as people love to call it. And so I cycled through there numerous times trying to finally find peace and serenity and try to piece myself back to somewhat normal knee normalcy because it was hard to find myself. I mean, it can still be a struggle today, but today I've kind of got it managed despite the fact that most people don't know if it's me or not. That's one thing. Yes, it did. Okay. Yeah. So when I was actually in the regular hospital, I actually ended up going into cardiac arrest in going on to the other side. I briefly did see Chester there. I mean, when I was still laying in my own bed, I immediately came out of myself like an out of body experience. I had it here in my own house. Like I messed up, screwed up and I felt really, really scared as, and I tried to fix it, but I couldn't, you know, I mean I tried going back into myself in it and I couldn't. What else did I see? I, I saw a long line of people. I saw a big gate and then I talked to the creator himself in. He told me everything I had to do every amends I had to make every mistake that I had to rectify. I don't know if any of you guys are familiar with any of the Superman movies, whether old or the man of steel remake It felt like being in, inside the fortress of solitude where like you mess with certain crystals and you see a Superman's father talking to you. I haven't really thought about that. I mean, at first it was like, okay. I mean, I've been like, I, I am able to talk to people who cross over to our side from the other side and then someone go there myself and then come back again. But that felt really different. I do. And I never really thought about it that way. Well, considering how I'm about to open my own business. Yeah. That's a big shocker there. I'm still trying to wrap my head around that one. But yeah, I mean, I felt bad for the way that I scared my family, the way I did when they found me unable to be awoken. I mean, at first they, they thought I was just plain sleeping and then around 11, they came in and was like, okay, time for you, wake up. And meanwhile, behind them in though, they can really see that version of me. I was like, hello, you can't see me, but you can't do that something wrong. You have to get nine one one here. Now I could see them. They couldn't see me. All the, all they saw was a fiscal version of me laying on the bed, unable to become conscious again. My business is in payment processing or financially speaking. So picture this right. You go to Walmart or even Wendy's or taco bell or McDonald's or burger King, and you're waiting in a line and you see the card reader thing that has a swipe. And now nowadays the chip thing at the bottom where you entered the card with the chip or even more so nowadays since the pandemic hit contactless payment, where you can just take your phone, tap it onto the thing and do it that way. That's what my company works with. I think I do. I mean, I know I do when it comes to computers and things, I never really thought about that, but I'd have to say, yeah, I guess it does. I would have to go sell on that. I mean, I still have a little bit of issues here and there and the, and there are days where super paranoid me comes out. And then there's also days where like, sometimes I can not be here for like a month up to six months at a time. And so my family doesn't really know who they're dealing with and they honestly couldn't really care. Yes, it is highly. Right? It is. Yeah. I mean, sometimes I even get compared to Norman Bates. I never really thought about that. I mean, I know I had that diagnosis when I was a kid and then they're like, Oh, when the depression comes in, you kind of out grow the autism part. That is an interesting thought. But, but yeah, I, I liked playing video games and I like solving puzzles, reading books, and sometimes even writing them. But my video games are the most important piece. I mean, I, I play ones that that's called Batman Arkham, whether it's called Arkham asylum, Arkham city or origins or Arkham night, even Yeah. I mean, I love that video game. I mean sometimes where, where I'm having like a really bad emotional day where I just feel so angry. I just want to punch this Nadal. Somebody I'm like, Alrighty, I'm going to be in govern city, become the bat. Yes, it is. It really is. I, I do like investigating and I mean, my, my dream was always become like some sort of law enforcement or investigator like the police or something. And so when comes to like watching a crime show where something, and they give you like puzzle pieces that you have to figure out, I'm actually putting myself into like the shoes of a detective and like working along with it in though, I know that on the show, Like the audience will figure out something first before the actors on the show themselves do on like, that's a little weird, like I'm one step further ahead than they are. Right. And most of my alters as they're called other personalities, they're also called alters. A lot of them are like within the military or police field or some sort of law enforcement field. My preferred Mostly rock. Okay. Thank you for having me. This is Okay. That'd be great. <inaudible>.Very good. How are you doing? Nice. All right. Let's see here. When I was about 16, I suffered a depression. And before that, I would use to a ghost hunt, and I was interested in listening to like amplified silence and stuff for like ghosts. And, you know, it, it, when I was 16, it elevated into the depression. I used to think that my dreams were connected to a reality, and that the events that occurred in my dreams were, you know, real events that, and real opinions and stuff like that, of the people in the dreams. And then what, round 28, I was diagnosed with schizophrenia between 16 and 28. I used to have hallucinations of, of my neighbors talking to me outside my window. And, you know, it sort of escalated from there. I believed in things I believed in tell telepathy and, you know, communications that way and things escalated. And I ended up in the hospital a few times. It was just, you know, mental health troubles started around 16, at least the more severe symptoms. It was, it was connected to schizophrenia, but it wasn't at the same time, it was like a, you know, just a depression. And from that depression, I feel like I developed a lot of views of the world that ended up affecting me later on. No, because when I was 16, it was just, it was just the depression. It wasn't schizophrenia at that point, but that was a big gear. And my mental health, you know, struggles was, was when I was 16, 17 years old. It wasn't until later on that I was, you know, thinking that I was hearing telepathy and, and voices and stuff like that. Yeah, I think I take, I used to take Risperdol. I'm not sure they have me on right now. It's not very strong. It's yeah. I think it's an anti-psychotic. They have Probably about four or five years ago. I've been kind of resistant to them because, because I don't believe that anti-psychotics are the cure for schizophrenia. I think it comes from physical physical means that I've discussed this on the forum where I believe the balance system is the center for hearing voices. Like when you turn on a fan or a space heater and you start to hear voices. Yeah. Like a fan or a space heater is going to be the same instrument as your balanced system. And I think that when you turn those on you activate your balance system to hear voices and communicate that way. They've been really light lately, nothing serious. About a year ago. It ended where it was very serious for probably about six years, but then my father passed away and that didn't cause the voices to stop, but I moved like briefly after he passed away. And I think moving around helped, helped a little bit moving to a new location and having new surroundings. It didn't stop the voices. But when I moved back home from where I moved out to, I really haven't heard them like since, since then. I filed for it, but I got denied about eight months ago. So we, we recent the, the claims back in to try to, you know, argue with them and we haven't heard back yet. I would say that was true for the past six years, but this, this past year I've been in pretty good health, actually. I've been not hearing too many voices, not having the, you know, month long story episode, kind of, you know, sorry, not having like the, you know, episodes where they last, they last and last and I get all confused and, But for the past year, Oh, go ahead. Yeah. For the past year it's been, I've been doing better. I would say I still hold some of the beliefs that I had when I was strongly hearing voices, but, you know, they just haven't really been there. They, they spark up after, after I wake up from vivid dreams, I'll still hear voices when I wake up, but they, you know, they haven't really been as strong in influencing my behavior. I guess just fear right now. I'm afraid that, you know, there's always something new, you know, around the corner is, is kind of the thing, even though the past six months have been, or the past year has been, you know, better that doesn't guarantee that the next year will be, you know what I'm saying? Yeah. It it's been like this before, where I've felt, you know, stable. And then I ended up tripping down a rabbit hole at some point, and then I ended up in psychosis again. On the internet? Yeah, but not in person. I don't get like shunned when I go out into public or anything. I, but on the internet when I discuss things, sometimes I'll discuss something like, you know, my thoughts on the ballot system or the gyroscope and people tell me I need help and that I need to seek mental health. Then I always take, you know, sort of offended by that because I already seek mental health and you know, they just, they come off as kind of pompous telling me that I need to go into the hospital just because I wrote up, you know, something on a forum or something like that. Yeah. I, well, when I first, when I was 28, I came up with like a list of things to work on, associated with schizophrenia and, and gravity and to try to connect the two. And I found the tailbone or, you know, I, I thought maybe my tailbone is involved somehow. And that was back in 2012. And I didn't look at it again until 2017 or 2018, actually. So for six years I just kind of ignored it. I th I think a lot of people do that. There's been one guy on the internet who, who said that he was a baseball player and that instead of leading with his hips, which they tell him to do in batting, he leads with his tailbone and he can hit the ball a lot farther. And he made the all-star team ever since he started doing that. And that was about the only person that I've run into that has like, you know, at least, you know, they use their tailbone in some manner, Yeah. Like I think it's, it's just both those things are, are new pieces of information when you, when you Google search tailbone, our human tailbone wagging the, the Google answers are that that are read back are my answers on forum posts because there's like zero information out there about the tailbone. Yeah. It was just not, not very much information for people to reference. Oh, that's something that started when I was having pretty severe episodes. The very first one I made was, was to try to find a circuitry for my gyroscope invention, because I wanted the gyroscope to measure, you know, how, when you laugh really hard, like a fan will like swoosh sort of that my thought was that you could take a instrument to measure the power to going into the fan. And that could measure not just the power going into the fan, which changes when it swooshes, but, you know, it would also measure emotion in the atmosphere. So that's, that's the sort of stuff that, that, you know, I don't know the answer to. And I ended up, you know, my mind ends up wandering and I ended up making up new information that, that throws me off and I ended up believing it telepathy again and voices and the whole thing. But yeah, my art was to just paint pictures for this gyroscope circuitry, where I had five emotions, happiness, love, sadness, fear and anger. And I painted like little, little, just blurry scratches on the paper above the, the five, the five emotions. And they turned out like, like it was some sort of like ancient. Yeah. Like it was some sort of pictures that someone had drawn before. And they were like coming out of my hand, as I painted. And it looked like perfect. The five emotions, I had five little paintings of, of each emotion and they matched up, like there was a face in each of the little paintings that matched up with the emotion that, that it was supposed to. And I was like, how the hell did that happen? And so I started like painting, like crazy. And I just, I just got into it. And I started, I ended up painting like 800 pictures. People can look up Trevor seven art, which is a Facebook page. And that has a lot of my ideas about tailbone and the gyroscope and, you know, a bunch of paintings to look at. I don't know. I always wanted to ask for forgiveness. If anyone is watching this or listening to it, that that I've founded. There was a long period of time in my life from 28 to 36, where I was very confused about telepathy. And I would have dreams about my friends from high school and from beyond high school. And I would wake up and I would hear them through the space heater as voices, and I would get confused about telepathy and I would, you know, make rude remarks to them in reality. And, you know, so anyone who's watching that, that, that sounds familiar with, I just want to apologize to them that, you know, it was, it came from places that weren't factual to save the lease. Whatever he got laying around, you know, I can't, maybe Yeah. Electronics. Good. I'm doing Okay. So let me think. I, I, my symptoms actually started when I was very young and I wanna say, like I was around a six years old when I had my first suicidal ideation. So I was very young when my mental health began to decline and a, I would, I would commonly from that age up until I was a late teenager, I'd be very depressed, you know, lethargic, anxious. I'm it didn't really develop into a full-blown schizophrenia until I, I would like to say around 18. Yeah, it was, it was a bit of a journey because it started out with just depression, simple depression. And then I began to hear voices. They began to have delusions as young as six. It is, it's usually people don't develop schizophrenia and so they're in their twenties. So it was very unusual from, for someone like me, me, me, me, me, me like very commonly and have delusions that my parents about my friends. And it was almost every day, I'd be bombarded with these, like subluminal messaging from my, for my own brain. You know, Yeah. I do. I mean, there's a lot of theories behind why schizophrenia shows up. And one of the really common theories is like you said, it's a predisposition, a like a genetic factor. Almost like if you, if you have family history of certain things and that's when you're going to develop it, I do have a mental illness in my family, but no one else has schizophrenia. I was the first one to develop something that severe and that, that are impactful in my life. I think the reason why I sound so lucid and I sound so with it is because of my medicine easily because I take a lot of pills, a lot of pills and it's, they help me stay cognitively there. When I was younger, I struggled a lot with like schoolwork and all that stuff because of the district, the, the, the story of station you get from schizophrenia, and it got better as time went on. And as soon as I got on meds, it almost got a, a, a a hundred percent better. Like I don't hallucinate anymore. I don't have delusions. I don't have ideas of reference. I'm very with it. I do. I take, I think around 11 to 12. It is. It's an incredible amount of medicine. And I think it also is because I have co-morbidities as well as schizophrenia. I have the ADHD. I have the obvious depression. My schizophrenia is actually Schizoaffective bipolar type. So, and I get the bipolar aspects of bipolar illness as well with the schizophrenia. They, they, they helped me greatly, and I honestly could not be the way I am right now without them. I mean, I'm working, I'm working at a very stressful job. Mmm. I'm living life or with friends and family. And I'm trying to get myself out there and be active in my community and stuff, not with this virus going around, obviously, but I try my best to live a very functional life. And these meds make that possible. I was at first, very hesitant because I was, I was always a person growing up saying, Oh, I don't want to take pills. I don't want to take pills. I don't want to ever take pills. And that's what made me resistant to getting treatment so young. I hit all my symptoms from everybody. So no one would diagnose me. No one would treat me because I was afraid of having to take medicine. But once I, once I got diagnosed with schizophrenia, it kind of became a necessity to get on the pills because I was, it's just, it's so cognitively upsetting it's. So it's a different world having the brain of a schizophrenia. Okay. I w I was actually here in the same thing. When I, before I was diagnosed, I had, I had voices, a lot of voices. I also had visuals, but the, the visuals we're kind of rare, but that would occur in the morning. Usually I would have to be, Okay. So I would wake up in the morning and I would have the shadow people that looked like shadow's, but there are shaped like people, and they'd be standing over me doing something like pointing at me or just staring at me. And then it had no ice. They had no face, they had no structure, but it looked like shadow people that were like, I don't know, like when I woke up and I would see it and I'd be like, I'd be like, Ugh, people are watching me again. It would, it would think it would make me think that I was under scrutiny. Like it was constantly being observed Oh it was terrifying. I hated it. I hated waking up and seeing these shadow people. And then, and then currently, while I was seeing the shadow people that he was hearing voices saying, kill, kill yourself, kill yourself. Or just other random jumbled up nonsense. Does it make any sense to me? It's just a voice talking to me. Yeah. Yeah. I think the resurgence of, of symptoms is usually due to the medication, stopping, stopping its actions on you is usually when you buy it, as they say every nine years, your body cycles out the medicine that you take. That means if you start up a new PIL, a new regiment, as opposed to the old one, that's what he said to me. My psychiatrist tells me, she says that eventually your body gets used to the substance you're taking, and then you could have a resurgence of symptoms. So I'm always, I'm always wary of if, if I'm hallucinating or, or if I'm having a delusion, whether or not it's New or it's old, or, you know, okay. It, it doesn't happen to everybody. Some people are able to take a one pill for their entire lives and be okay. They think that schizophrenia are notably more resistant to that. Like our brain works around the chemicals that we put in our body and they set up a set ourselves up for failure basically. Cause the brain wants to be diseased. They wants to have that, that, because that's just how we're wired, you know, from birth or whenever we are wired to have this, draw it to a mental illness. Okay. Okay, so I've worked on a children's ward for mentally ill children. Yeah. It's in a way it's in a psychiatric hospital, in New Jersey. It's a very, it's, it's a nice place to be because it's from compared to the psych wards I've been on as a patient. It's a very vibrant, it's very friendly. It's very warm. The staff are great. Cause I always think about my times when I was in a psychiatric ward, you know, when I was younger and I think of it as a very negative experience. So I try to make it a positive for the kids by being friendly, helpful. Cause a lot of these kids or young and they are getting started on these medications that are very detrimental. So you want to be able to take care of them, help them understand what's happening with their brains and their bodies, a, you know, stuff like that. And I don't know if I have faced discrimination. I did not bring it up on my interview. I kept it very simple. Like I am a nurse I'm trained classically as a nurse. I just want to help people. So like psychiatry as my forte, I didn't say why it was my forte because it's, it's my, it's my focus in life because I am mentally ill myself, but I just, I kind of kept it out of the interview. I did not bring it up at work. I keep it to myself. Just so no one knows. I think maybe one of the nurse knows. I think I told her because I was taking this the same pill is one of her patients and I'm like, Oh, this pill makes you thirsty. So we're going to have to give her a water. And that led to Hyde, you know that, and I was like, well, because I take it. So it was like, it w you should of seen kind of like the face, you get the response you get from revealing, something like that. It was lithium and lithium was known to make you thirsty. So I said, Yeah lithium makes you thirsty. We're going to have to get through to a lot of water, like a water bottle or something. And she was like, how did you know that? And I said, well, I take it. And she's like, Oh, okay. Yeah. Who never was brought up again? I don't think I've ever faced discrimination. Oh, Oh yeah. Oh, I would say, I was thinking about like, what would it, what was going to happen if I said this? And so I said it and it was okay. And she seemed to be fine with it. Like if people don't always ask that everyone's curious, especially nurses, we just wanna know why you take it just for your health regions. Not, not really feeling like, you know, Oh, this person's like a mentally ill, a crazy person. You know what I mean? I did. I had a long-term boyfriend at the time who a, when I was diagnosed, who left me almost instantly So he said, he said he was done and I'm like, all right, I guess that's it. And he was like, yeah, I can't be with you. Cause you do to crazy. And that was like, OK. But my other mom, all my friends and family have been very supportive. They've been understanding of my hallucinations. I'm just standing of my, my paranoia. They've been very supportive. It's just that one person was enough to upset me over my diagnosis. And that's when I told him myself, I will keep it to myself unless it, the time calls and I need to reveal it. At school? I got judged because specifically in college, because I was sectioned, I was, I guess, Baker acted. I wanna say my, my junior year. Yeah. I'm a junior year of college and everyone knew because I was missing for about a week and a half and everyone assumed the worst. And the hard part was telling my professors that like, Oh, it's because I was in the hospital and I really don't want to tell you why, but like I have, I had, I had a crisis that I needed to be addressed. And so it is that the peers, I did see me differently. The, as they saw me getting led out into an ambulance at my therapist office, and they were like, watching it happen this year, it was right between class changes. So yeah, it was, it was a little upsetting. Cause I knew everyone would treat me differently once they saw me again and they did treat me differently. They did judge me and they did a question me and all that other stuff. Okay. Yeah. Sure not a common delusion. I had a as a child while I was very young, I was very young that my parents were asked to get me not in the standard. They're out to get me in trouble as parents we'll do it. It was more like, Oh, there going to cut me up and see me to the neighbors type of delusion. It, it, it was, it was the weirdest solution I ever had and it was persistent. It lasted for about a year. I was afraid of my parents in every aspect. And they had a note. The parents are great. My parents are great people. They, and they've done nothing wrong to me. I mean, we all make mistakes and stuff, but they've been excellent. They've been ultimately supportive and very, and very loving and kind about everything. But at that young age, my delusion was that they were gonna, they were trying to make me eat a lot and then they were going to kill me. And then we're going to feed me to the neighbor's. So I refused, I refuse to eat and I would often starve myself because it was so afraid of that. I'm a lot of delusions of persecution. So for example, I would think that everyone's talking about me, everyone's reading my thoughts. Everyone's thinking that I'm, I'm, I'm crazy. Even though this is before I had the definition of crazy really set out before I was diagnosed, this was when I was really young. And I would often think that people are reading my thoughts. So I would change my thought pattern around, try to get, try to fool them. And that they looked at me funny. That means they caught me changing my thoughts. I think it's well for what I know, schizophrenia is a, is a physiological condition due to high levels of dopamine and the brain. So dopamine, when you have too much of it, it actually erodes. You're a brain matter. It will actually a shrink your brain. And every time you have a psychotic, a Episode it even more and more and more So my, my thoughts are schizophrenia is definitely a physiological condition. You can see it on MRI scans. You can see the, the shrunk and frontal lobe, how tiny it gets and how wrinkled and deformed it can become because of that constant exposure to dopamine. From my understanding, you can diagnose it with an MRI scan, a you can easily see the brain destruction in someone's skull. After a long term, along amount of a long, a long time of a constant delusions and hallucinations, you can actually see the decay. And that's why people with schizophrenia, you are also at a high risk for Alzheimer's and dementia, because as you lose that brain matter, your brain ages is, you know, it's destructive. Patient hat. Okay. Actually, I don't know, because I had looked at it. I look at things very medically mechanically. That's just how my brain functions as a patient. I see taking my medicine as the best defense against repetitive, a psych psychosis. If I keep taking my meds, I'm going to stay nice and sane and I'm not going to lose my brain matter. And I'm going to stay young and functioning I'm as a patient. I see. I, it kind of do wish they had blood tests for schizophrenia. I'm not sure what they would check for me because I don't know what the Jen, the, the markers would be for something like that. Cause you have to know what you are looking for when you take a blood test. But I do know MRIs. Like they, they, they scanned my head and they saw a shrinkage in the frontal lobe. So they were like, yeah, you definitely have some sort of function as a functionary issue and your brain. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I, I seek to rationalize why it happens and my brain is already very medical. So I was, I was like, Oh yeah, this is totally what's happening to me, but it can be, it could be any number of things. They really don't know what causes schizophrenia. They really aren't sure yet. Like, I, I I've read many papers from different viewpoints and a, some people think it's trauma-based to others think it's the chemical base, but just the dopamine action. So that people think is glutamate, which is a completely like a completely different neuro transmitter in the brain. And that is what the newer drugs are aimed to treat the glutamate path, that pathway, as opposed to the dopamine pathway. And it all depends on each person. It could be a number of reasons why a schizophrenia exists. It can be different for every individual who has it. OK. I'm a photographer. So when I'm not working as a nurse, I, I use my camera and like get some extra cash. And I also create art and I shoot weddings events, stuff like that. But my main focus is portraits. So I try to express my feelings and thoughts and my mind is through portraits. Yeah. It helps a lot. It's very therapeutic. It's one way to relax myself. I feel much more at ease when I'm taking pictures. It's, it's a world of very comfortable in yeah. It's, it's, it's very helpful for me. It, it is so therapeutic and it makes me feel great with this, this virus that's going around. I haven't been able to shoot because everyone's kind of self quarantining. So I I'm, I feel like I'm going a little stir-crazy. This is when the mental illness comes out. Like there isn't any, anything preoccupied in my mind with I am a gamer. Yes, I am. I am proud of that fact. Cause I've been gaming ever since I was a kid. It? It most certainly does a game with sister who is also <inaudible> <inaudible>.Yeah, we ju we just had a blizzard, so it's where today's the first warm day or yesterday was pretty worn too, but that the, that the snow actually has a chance to thaw out. So Sure. Yeah, I was, I was diagnosed around 30 saws relatively late to be diagnosed, but I didn't have any symptoms before then. I went through a stressful period where me and a girl that I was seeing long-term ended up breaking up and I was kind of distraught about that. And so it was that stress that sorta provoked my first psychosis. The psychosis lasted about six months and I had went to, I was, I was exhibiting paranoia, not so much hallucinations, but a paranoia and just, I wasn't thinking correctly for, I forgot what the name of that symptom is, but yeah, delusions and I, you know, they were pretty much textbook delusions, you know, persecutory, delusions. And so So there's, there's a list. You think you're being persecuted by something else and it could be, it could be, you know, like you think the government's after you, or you think that people are putting, you know, stuff in your house to watch you, but persecutory delusions or anything where you're feel like you're persecuted by some other. And so I was exhibiting those, I, you know, I thought people were putting things in my house to watch me. For some reason. I, I thought the government was after me later, I thought like witches were real. And so they became bizarre. There's bizarre, non bizarre. So thinking the government's after you, even though it's probably not, that's more of a non bizarre because it's not, you know, supernatural or, or anything like that. And so most of mine were non bizarre things that you could improve or you couldn't disprove, but are just highly unusual or not unlikely, not unusual. And so, yeah, I ended up in the emergency room and they they'll ask you two questions every time. You're are you thinking about hurting yourself? No. And are you thinking about hurting other people? And like, I wasn't really making much sense. And so I didn't know what they were asking me, but I knew I needed help. So I was kind of, I forgot what the name of it is, where you're, you're kind of not in touch with reality. And so I said yes to that one, and that ended up me being in a, in a really high, I think I had a court order against me to, to where they had to take me. So I was, I was taken to a mental hospital in a police car in shackles, which is not great for your mental health. And, you know, it was never dangerous to anybody or anything, but I just, yeah, that's, that's what ended up happening. I was taking that was in Tennessee, from North Tennessee to central Tennessee, about an hour and a half car ride. I wanna say like 2015, 20, 2015 or 2014. Yeah. Especially if you tell them you might hurt yourself or someone else they'll put your, so ours was like a giant hotel, almost. It was probably 10 or 15 stories and I was in the very top of it. So because you're least likely to be able to get out that way. And it's the reason they put you on that and that's happened. So that ended up happening. I later I went to a, I was, I went live with family in Georgia until my delusions passed. Well, they didn't know if they were going to pass this time. Cause it was my first psychosis. And so I went to a much better mental health hospital in, in Georgia. And so, yeah, that, that was much better. And then slowly my, after about six months, my delusions went away and I ended up going back to work and in Kentucky. So I went on FMLA, which is family medical leave act for six months, which they'll save your job and they'll use up all your leave that you have. But, you know, I was, I was almost extending past the allowable amount for that would six months. And so the, the medicine they ended up putting me on was <inaudible> risks. They, it was the injectable shot for Risperidone. It gets once a month. And then they ended up putting me on something else because that wasn't working and there was another injectable. And so that's what I was actually on when I went to it. I forgot the name of that. It's a, is in Vegas, a stand of the palpate own. I think it is. It was. It was some other one and it was much more expensive and I can afford it. And so they didn't really think too well about that because my, my, my shot was like once a month or once every three months. And it was like 12 or $1,500. And, you know, I make okay money, but I couldn't afford that. So, you know, it's great American healthcare. I had insurance, they just didn't want to pay for it. And so I ended up going off the medicine for about a year and I didn't have any more, any more problems for that year until I ended up transferring overseas and working overseas. And the stress of moving, I guess, caused another episode, but that one only lasted a couple of weeks. And since then I've been on Risperidone four milligram and that was, that's been, I haven't had any more psychosis or any more problems since then, Yeah. It's a tablet and it's much more affordable, I mean, I mean, schizophrenia are known for having really high wages and I probably had, you know, a full-time job and, and which is better than probably 95% of them. And, you know, and I had insurance and, and, you know, it's just, I can afford it. I, so like when you go, when you go off of work for six months because of psychosis, you know, you, I had, I had some money saved up for it. I just went through it all. You know, I had a house payment, I had a car payment and, you know, ruin my credit because like when I was in Georgia, I was going through psychosis. So I wasn't really thinking about, you know, my water, you know, payment. And so like my water ended up getting cut off, which ruined my credit and just, you know, a bunch of things. So, you know, it can really ruin you financially not being functional for extended amount of time. I think that, you know, a lot of people have bad spending habits that unfortunately I'm very frugal. So I, I might be extremely unusual, but, but like, you know, I'm, I'm very frugal, I think a lot about personal finance or read a lot about personal finance. And so that's actually, and I think it was my circumstance of like being flat broke almost. And, you know, after six months of psychosis that, that, you know, put that fear of that end may where I just didn't want bill collectors calling me again for a hospital bill, you know, of where I wasn't really, even in a right mind to make that decision to go in there, you know, and you know, like that, that hospital bill in like Tennessee, I think it was like 2,500. And, you know, after that I hit a coat or I hit a max deductible. And so, you know, I went in the hospital probably six or seven, not six or so, probably four or five times and Torah. And each of those were free, but it's just, I don't know it was a mess, Mainly just take medicine is the main thing, like the Risperidone four milligram, it's a high dosage, but it seems to be doing really well for me. And I've never been one for like, you know, hallucinations, but the delusions, you know, I I've almost had every single one of those. It seems like over the, the amount of time, not to everyone, but you know, some of them, the main persecutory delusions. And so it keeps those away and that that's what's. So if you look at the DSM-V, which is the main medical book for psychological disorders, there's one for delusional disorder, which I see, I don't, I don't even see a psychiatrist now just because I live in such a small town that there's only one, but I just take the medicine and, you know, I talked to, I have a girlfriend that she lives in a different state, but we, we ended up talking quite a bit. So that helps my mental health quite a bit. Just we're both very is, is weird as it sounds, we're both very logical and she's, she has, we were both in the same profession and she's a she's bipolar. And so when she's not having her episodes as well, like we're just both extremely logical. And so we get along real well because of that. So we kind of keep each other in check or at least I hope we do for, you know, you know, seeing if we're getting too far off and actually need more help than what we're currently have important because, A lot of them, like my coworkers was mainly my main social group since I worked like 40 hours a week. And you know, like my parents or my mom, she really promoted getting help. She's had her own problems with psychological disorders, mainly postpartum depression that she ended up having depression continued after that. And so she takes medicine for that. My brother he's in the he's a fireman, but he's more like the paramedics for the fireman. And so he, he does a lot of medical stuff and I mean, as much as he can understand about it, you know, he tried to help me with that. And so, you know, I don't know it was, they saw me during some like very dark times, but you know, like my more extended social group, the coworkers that I had, they just, they didn't know too much about it except for one. And they just saw me just kind of go away for six months and then come back. And, you know, I kind of had to come back. I had to have a doctor's note, but I needed the money financially to, to survive. And cause you know, my, my mom, she lives on social security, which is a government sort of assistance for working and, and you know, my brother, they make good money, but they spend most of it. So, you know, and trying to get on my own disability. Like I luckily my, my mind kind of cleared up after a while and you know, I wasn't didn't have to go onto disability for long-term, but my just life was in shambles, bill collectors, calling for medical. You know, So especially when you get into like the world of politics, like my mom, she's only diagnosed with depression, but she's, she's, you know, she's very delusional when it comes to certain her political theories that she thinks, you know, conspiracy type theories. So I think there is some sort of link with that, but they don't go, you know, it doesn't consume them as much as like a delusion would me would consume me. So my delusions were just, I couldn't think of anything else, but those delusions during that time. And whereas my mom, you know, she can be perfectly normal on other subjects, but you know, if you were to bring up politics with her, she's, you know, she believes certain things that just aren't at all possible. You know, they're just so out outlandish, but I, I think people do that, which she, she might not be the best because she's related to me. And so my, my mental health comes from somewhere and it, my PR, but I, you know, I've seen that with other people too, where they just, when it comes to politics, they, their, their ideas might be, you know, just not possible. Yeah. But I mean, for me being in psychosis is totally different than me being, you know, in everyday. So there's, there's also a big dichotomy between, you know, the two different types of people that you can be. So I think like, you know, if you constantly think that people are out to get you or something, and it's not consuming you, then you just might be a conspiracy theorist. But if it, like, if you're logical in one area and then like, suddenly you think that, you know, witches are out there, then, then I think that would be different. You know, I think that would be more likely to cause concern, you know? And that, that's just my be me. I mean, I don't know. I think, I think, you know, I always will because it's just me, but I think it comes to, to finances. You know, if you can't afford your medication, if you can afford, you know, good food or, you know, a healthy lifestyle and a stress-free lifestyle, you know, money helps with all of that and you get money from, and unfortunately in the States, you know, on disability you get maybe, you know, $1,200 a month, which just isn't enough to really survive in most areas. So I think money brings more, less stress, which, and that less stress, you know, allows you to not be an, a psychosis as much, at least in my circumstance. Cause that was, that was a continual thing was, you know, I, you know, girlfriend breaks up with me, go through a psychosis, you know, I move halfway across the world and go through psychosis. So stress was a big factor in me going through psychosis and also not taking medicine. So now that, you know, I've moved since then and you know, I didn't go through psychosis then, but I was taking medicine at the same point. No, not really. You know, I feel like I can do almost anything that someone else would do. I just, you know, I, I, I think the medicine helps a ton. Like I think if I was off medicine and this, like I moved about a year ago and I think that, you know, like my car broke or my, you haul a Burke down, I hit a big pothole and I totaled the U-Haul. And so it wasn't just a breakdown, but like, and I was stranded on the side of the road for like eight hours. Like that was a stressful event, but I still didn't go through psychosis. Cause I'm thinking that it's, you know, Well, a lot of people just don't understand it. So, you know, they get it, they get it like where you have split personality disorder. A lot of people think it might be that I, most people, they, I don't, I like, I still see it portrayed. I don't even know if it's true, but like when mine psychosis hits me, like I'm a completely different person, not dangerous. I still understand certain norms and, and things like that. But it's, you know, like, I don't know, like, like, so can I ask you a question? Like, does yours, does yours affect you all of the time? Like, or is it, does it come in episodes and leave in episodes? Yeah. I'm much more dangerous to myself than I'd ever be to anybody else even going through, you know, psychosis and yeah, I don't, I don't think a lot of people understand that and it's, I don't know what it is, but you know, my mind goes to very dark places when I'm in psychosis and I, and you know, it's like, you just want it all to stop, you know, whatever's going on. And it's, it's just that doesn't make sense. Probably. And like that, that's the thing is where, what you talked about is you stopped taking it because you think you're better and then you find out you're not, or for me it was, you know, I couldn't afford it. I don't think anything's really wrong with me. I just thought it's something, I went through a really stressful period and, you know, I had like brief psychotic or bricks psychosis or brief psychotic disorder. And it ends up coming back and you know, like I'm, I'm lucky that my, my job, you know, they sent me back from the being overseas, but I still had a job. Like a lot of people don't want to put up with that stuff and they'll find some reason to not, you know, not take, not, not continue your contract or whatever type of work you're doing. They'll they'll blame it. Oh, he's, you know, he's not doing something right. Yes. I worked for the federal government and they have certain laws that allow you to get into the system, which I've never had to use because I, I got into the federal government before I was diagnosed and it's called a schedule a, so it's mainly used for lower positions, but I'm in a more medium to high position, but it's, it can be used for medium high. I've just never seen it actually implemented correctly. And, but yeah, you know, like when I was overseas, like they decided not to continue my contract and, you know, was that probably some sort of discrimination? Cause I went through psychosis and they saw it probably, but like my chances of, you know, of, of proving that is rare, they could just say, well, he wasn't, you know, up to up to speed, but I was lucky that they actually continued me working. And so they transferred me back to the States and I ended up working in the States and I'm still working for federal government. I mean, I mean, does that make sense? No, I don't think so. I've been just kind of freely talking. Is there, I like, I really like music that I like bluegrass a lot. There's a guy named Billy strings. I like, and I like blues. There's a guy named Marcus King and I like Chris Stapleton, which is country, but it's probably bluegrass if I had to pick anything. But I just like really good singers, really good musicians from those from almost any genre. But yeah, It is. It's a, it's kinda like a sub genre of most, most similar to country, but not pop country, bluegrass it's it's comes from the Appalachian area and there's, there's even a sub genres of it called new grass, which is more new alternative rock played with bluegrass instruments. So yeah. Do bluegrass. Billy strings is, is a really good and bluegrass musician. How are you? Well, I think my first symptoms were probably when I was a kid, when it was about six, I was really paranoid and I had this thing where I thought there was this like old hag that would wait at the top of the stairs. When I was walking down the stairs, I could feel her watching me and I thought she was going to get me. But Never saw her? I was, I was scared to death of seeing her. I could just feel her behind me and I could feel her hiding behind corners in the house waiting for me. It was really creepy. I think my, my symptoms started when I was about 16, 17, and it started with voices, voices at night when I was trying to sleep, I couldn't, I couldn't sleep because of all the voices. And then, and then I started to think that I was broadcasting my thoughts out to everybody, you know? And I thought my neighbor was a psychic vampire and it was sucking the sanity out of me. No, not until I was 18. I was 18. When I signed myself in to the hospital, I actually moved away from home at 17. Nobody really noticed that was I was depressed before that and I just sort of cut myself off from everybody and hung out in my room. So nobody really noticed I was really, I was really scared to tell anybody about my symptoms. So it was, it was when I was 18. I signed myself into the hospital and that's when I got diagnosed. The smoke The hospital, they came around every hour and let your cigarette. Paranoid schizophrenia. And panic attacks. They did. I don't remember what it was at the time. Yeah. Yeah. It was an anti-psychotic. I don't remember which one. I actually had a brain hemorrhage at 20 My, my symptoms went away after my brain hemorrhage and I went off my meds and I was off my meds for like 18 years before the symptoms came back. Yeah. I had money in everything got married and had fun, Yeah. Yeah. No, it was, it was a knock out of blood vessels in my brain. It's called an AVM Venous malformation, and it just sort exploded one day. And I spent a week in the hospital after that. No, not on the psych ward obviously, but, but I have a lot of sleep paralysis after the brain hemorrhage. Yeah like a lot, like every time I fell asleep for a few weeks, but they didn't give me my meds in the hospital. So when I came home, I forgot to take them. And after about two weeks I was, I was good. I was fine. Yeah, I was about 38 was about five years ago. Okay. Well, it had to complete a psychotic break. Yes. Yes they did. They put me on quite high, a pain first and Amman airy preppers on that. With the crux high? A pain? Yeah, it was bad. I put it on, I put on about two stone in two months and I just, I slept, I slept so much and I, I just found that hard to get up and do anything, which makes it hard with kids. So I've got an 18 year old. I've got a twelve-year-old and I've got the seven year old. Well I've, I was live in a different country now than I did when I first got sick. So So the, the friends I have now are good. Yeah. I've, I've been able to be pretty open with them. I lost a lot of friends when I first, when I first got it and yeah, lost a lot of friends. Definitely. Well, it's partly a factor I would, I would like to, I would like to get a job I would like to work, but now that my kids are a bit older and in school and stuff, I'm not sure what I would do. It's been, it's been so long. I've been without a job that I'm not sure what I would go back to. But Yeah. That would be really cool. I think I'd really more than that. I've got, I have good days and bad days, you know, the meds helped a lot, but, but they don't, they don't help entirely. I still, I still have delusions and stuff. Sometimes I catch myself out. So I'm quite good at catching myself out. So it's the negative symptoms, I think mostly that affect me at this point. I just, I do find myself thinking I can read minds and I have to have to take a step back and be like, this is all in your head. You know, you need to communicate with people and not just assume things because, Sometimes not lately. Not the past week or two, but, but yeah, Sometimes, sometimes I just, I just assume I know what they're thinking. Yeah. And do you find yourself acting on it and it's not necessarily based in what's really going on. I have my, my, my voice has a lot of the time are people. I know they sound sounds like people. I know. So I found that confusing. I honestly don't know. Just something wrong with my head. Yeah. It's so hard sometimes to find where you draw the line too. Is it, is it just my inner inner thoughts or is this starting to become a problem? You know what I mean? Like I know exactly what you mean Oh, I just try to take it really easy. I spend, I, I spend a lot of time distracting myself, try to stick to a basic schedule, which I have to because of the kids obviously, but not, not as much now that we're in lockdown. Okay. You know what I used to and I would like to again, but I'm out of supplies at the moment. So I think that's something I'm gonna do in the coming weeks. I've brought out of paper in my sketchbook of run out of paints. I think just that it's, it's hard, but it's not, not like, I guess a lot of people that are like, Oh my God, this was the most horrible thing that could ever happen. And it's not it's my life, you know? Yeah. We're just, we're just regular people. I don't know The knock on home. Who's gone. <inaudible> on the phone. Like there is nothing. We can't pretend. Keep acting silly. The task <inaudible> <inaudible>.Well, actually I was diagnosed in 2011, but I first started experiencing symptoms, paranoid symptoms in 2008. And actually I ended up quitting my job. I worked for a bank at that point and I started getting these ideas that the people that I worked with were saying these horrible things about me and talking behind my back and, and it led me to quit the bank, but I didn't really understand what was going on until much later I ended up, I guess this is probably a common thing with schizophrenia, but I ended up becoming, or getting into drugs to kind of deal with it, which is, it just made everything worse, obviously. But then you know, they kind of fed each other and in 2011 I was diagnosed actually, because I was in some legal trouble and the courts asked that I had some kind of a, a mental health examination. And so that's when I was diagnosed. Yeah. It was definitely, they, they asked me a ton of questions and I don't know, actually that was probably the first time that I was ever totally honest with a doctor as well. I think that, and this might be, you know, something you may have experiences with also, but kind of hiding, you know, your, your symptoms from people just cause, you know, I mean, Okay, well, I was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, so paranoia was a big part of what I experienced or experience. I guess I also had auditory what they called auditory hallucinations. I've since come to understand it differently in my years of experience, but I've also seen things kind of everything I've also, I don't, I don't know how exactly to explain it other than experienced coincidence is where I would see two things being connected that normally wouldn't be, but I would see it all the time, like ... Yes. Synchronicity. Exactly. That was a big thing for me as well. It is. And I think for a long time, I tried to believe that this was just, you know, my, my malfunctioning brain creating all of this, but actually the synchronicity part of it made it impossible for me to believe that. And I've, since I started seeking out my own spiritual journey and, and I think that, that where I am now. Well, I mean, I spent a lot of time, pretty much the entirety of my twenties for the most part alone. I didn't understand what was going on. And it hasn't actually only been but in the past three to four years that I've really started to understand what I've been experiencing and I've been able to move forward and start building my life up again in a healthy way. Mmm. Well, I guess for a long time, I, I believed that what I was experiencing wasn't coming just from my disease mind, but that it was coming from elsewhere. And unfortunately Well, the reason why I say it that way is because that's kind of what I've always been told by Western medicine. You know, you're not working properly, you need medication to work properly kind of a thing. And, and I really, I tried to be on board with that and I couldn't, I just couldn't after 10 years of what I've experienced, I, Ithere's no way that I could allow myself to believe that it was me not working properly. And so that's what I started seeking answers elsewhere. And I started developing my spirituality and understanding it. And you know, now as a healer, I'm level two Reiki, but I also do other things as well. I'm coming to understand how the universe works, how everything is energy and how there is much more out there than, than when we really talk about at this point in human evolution. And so I think that that as I've come to understand the universe better, its helped me to find reasons for what I'm experiencing and what's coming from. And that's helped me to deal with the stuff that I'm experiencing and to find healthy ways of dealing with those things that isn't necessarily just medications. Mmm, that's a tricky question because I'm right now, I am not currently on any medication for the most part. My days are fairly positive. I have a few bad days here and there, but I've learned how I've learned really what psychosis is And and I think I'm, you know, from a Western medical standpoint, yeah. I probably do experience psychosis, but from my new found perspective, I, I see it more as being able to communicate like with my spirit guides or Angels Uh-huh [yes] I also believe that. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think like, as you're saying, schizophrenia are just more sensitive to what is out there in the universe versus other people who may not be fully aware of everything that's going on around them. Well I'm from Colorado originally. And actually about four years ago, I moved here to New York by myself. And at that point in time, I was still using drugs and I was still very much confused by everything that was going on around me and actually being here by myself in New York, allowed me the opportunity to seek out my own answers. I think up until then when I lived in Colorado, where a lot of my family is, I was seeking out answers that were the answers they wanted me to seek out. You know, they, they were the one's that were like, Oh, you got to talk to a therapist, you've got to take your medication, you got to do all this stuff. And it kind of stopped me from seeking out my own answers. So actually moving here and being completely by myself and thousands of miles away from anyone that I really knew, allowed me to start seeking out my own answers. And that's actually been probably the most helpful thing to me. I definitely have. There's an office that I used to go to a lot of them, not so much anymore, but I also, I think I'm more connected to a group of recovering addicts that I found here through a group called smart recovery. Yeah. It was definitely created the most suffering that I've ever experienced. I think that they kind of feed each other as I'm experiencing these things as a schizophrenia sick and not really knowing how to deal with it and finding, I guess, some level of comfort in drugs, but then ultimately also just fueling things and making things worse and more negative. It's been, it's been pretty crazy. I think though that as I've entered into my recovery from my addiction problems, what I've learned in recovery has really helped me to understand my situation, understand who I am. And it's also lead to the development of my spiritual self and how I relate to the rest of the universe. And I think it's ultimately been worth it, I guess. So, yeah. Definitely actually on my website, I'm working on a blog post about drugs right now and spirituality and how, what I've come to see is that certain drugs like marijuana, like Ahyuhasca like Payoti, they have a tendency to raise your vibration, to connect you more to the higher spiritual realms, whereas drugs like heroin and methamphetamine, well actually lower your vibration significantly, which will connect you to much lower spiritual realms where negative energy thrive in exists, demonic energy, if you will, if you want to call it that. And that's actually been something that I've come to understand as a schizophrenic and a drug addict and who is now in recovery from both. I'm sorry. I think we had some technical difficulties. I just caught you beeped out. And I caught just the very last into what you just said. Yeah, definitely. I, I no longer see schizophrenia as a curse, as something that is detrimental to my health. I've learned what it is at least as far as my experience goes and I've learned how to deal with it and how to use it to my advantage. And so now I I'm, I'm very much grateful that is something that I experienced because it helps me to be a better healer. It helps me to help other people. And that's really what I'm dedicating my life to is helping others. Yeah. I think my experiences have, has shown me how I can help people. I guess. I, I feel like everything that I've gone through has kind of been almost a training program of sorts so that I can understand the unit in the way that I understand it now. And, and you know, Yeah. Yeah. And I feel like, you know, I've gone through all of those now. I know everything that I know. So I have all this knowledge, what am I going to do with it as well? Because we're all connected, you know? It was definitely part of it. I think I had visited New York twice before I moved here and kind of fell in love with it and things weren't really going well, that well for me in Colorado. I think I moved here for a bunch of different reasons, but ultimately I think this is where I'm supposed to be. The City is definitely more of my speed. I'm definitely a go person and this city is nothing but going. So I think that I fit that plus there's, there's always something around the corner that's weird and interesting. And I think being here affords me the opportunity to meet and experience people from all over the world. I mean, you know, there's so many different cultures that clash here, and there's so many different people with different beliefs. It's, it's a wonderful actually. Yeah. I think my family, they, they don't understand the mental health part of it. And when things were at their worst and things were just crazy and very negative, they didn't understand it and I didn't know how to be around them. So I kind of removed myself from my family experience from all of my friends. And like I said before, I think I spent pretty much 10 years just kind of on my own by myself, trying to understand this. And it's been great though, because in the past what, two to three years, as I have gotten better and have come to understand things in a different way, my I've been able to reconnect with my family. And it's almost like everything's normal again. It's pretty cool. Oh, I lost you again almost Frank Oh, there we go. Would Well, I can say I'm, you know, I think that pop culture has a funny way of, of using mental health, specifically schizophrenia and other things like that as kind of this way of, you know, explaining violent and horrible people in, in pop culture, you know, in the movies and things like that. And honestly, I have yet to meet a schizophrenia person who is violent, or who is trying to destroy things, I think most schizophrenia, or at least the ones that I've encountered in my life have all just been people who are good people who don't want to hurt anyone else who are really just experiencing things that are intense and confusing, and they just want answers. They want relief from their symptoms. I know. I, I don't need to take them anymore. I've been able to wean myself off of them. So Yeah. I've, I've probably been on most typical and atypical anti-psychotics at one point or another for the past 10 years, trying different things, seeing if things work, if they don't. And really none of them ever really improved my situation. It's only been my, the development of my spirituality. That's improved my situation and helped me. Yeah, I think most of the time the, the, the, the benefits did not outweigh the, the negative side effects from them. I took one drug that made me feel too big for my body. I felt like I was going to explode constantly. Like I was just going to explode out of my body. I don't know. And they all make me very tired when the game wait. Yeah. I mean, I know that in some cases, the medication is helpful for some people. And I think just in my specific personal experience, it's been the development of my spirituality that has really changed everything for me. It is. And I think, I mean, as far as far as I understand it, I think we're kind of moving into M a, a phase and human evolution where I think it's going to be become much more prevalent. I think we're, we're all going to start to understand our spirituality and our place in the universe in the years to come. But yeah, I mean, I think that really schizophrenia is rooted in our spirituality and our connection to the rest of the universe. And I think the more that we can understand the universe that surrounds us, and the more that we can understand how we fit in to all of that, they can help us to understand symptoms like auditory and visual hallucinations and different things, synchronicity that we notice. I think all of that can be explained. Just by understanding the universe better. I guess I've come to understand my auditory hallucinations as really a telepathic communication between myself and other conscious entities out there. My spirit guides. And I think that, you know, I've had an array of experiences as far as those go from being harassed and put down and having these overwhelmingly medic negative experiences to having these communications tell me, you know, Oh, you, it doesn't say it's going to rain today, but you might want to bring an umbrella just in case, because it turns out it did rain, you know, so they've been positive. They had been negative. And as I have, you know, understood where these are coming from, I've understood the difference between them. And I've been able to take myself away from the negative experiences and allow myself to keep experiencing the positive ones. Yeah. I've had paranoid delusions that had been very intense. Yeah. And they've caused a great deal of damage and the past to myself to O to so many things, but I've got it. Oh, okay. Like I said, I I've come to understand where those things originated from. And I've been able to learn how to block that from my experience and to protect myself from that sort of thing, because the universe is full of positive and negative energy. And so I think, you know, learning that certain things come from certain places, you can protect yourself from those things and, and make your experience more positive. I know we're almost out of time. On the Corona virus. Right now, they're trying to get it under control pretty much. And they want us to wear a mask and all that and all that stuff. Well, when I first became male, I lived in, in a apartment complex in town and I started to hear things. As soon as I woke up one day, I just started hearing things and I didn't know what they were or where they're coming from or anything like that. And it was a, it was, it was crazy. The, the voice has said that there was cameras and microphones and stuff like that. So I tore up my art and looking for these cameras or microphones or anything like that. And I found nothing. Well, yeah, the voices and a, the vision's or a visual hallucinations, I call them visions. Yeah. The vision for intense to at the time I have a vision problem from it. I see static all the time. It looks like blue and red static. Okay. Somewhere in there? I'm not sure in my memory is kind of, Yeah. I was making a really bad choice. It was at the time, you know, what habits and whatnot. So my friend's all my friends for me to have to be schizophrenia. And I've talked to them about this. Most of the people I hung out with were schizophrenia, but they never told me until I got schizophrenia. I've had telepathics situations where I don't just hear their voices. I go and talk to them and tell them what the thoughts are to see if they can verify it. That's what they were hearing. And that is, Well, for me, I just heard their voices a lot is a lot. It's a lot of fun for me. I heard their voices and I went and talked to them in person too. Right. Do I have an explanation for it? Yes, indeed. I believe that it has to do with, to be specific. If you look up the definition of television, it means at a distance vision. And what television wage do is they transmit images and sound. It says cheaply used to reproduce on the screens, but what else could television. Okay. Not the television, like the one that's in front of me right now. I mean television waves and stuff like that. I did a lot of research and they, I looked at the patent for television and they had an input arrangement for the central nervous system. Personally, I think it has to do with your central nervous system and the energy, you know, what, like how do you have century experiences? It could be something or you could smell something and stuff like that. I think that it has to do with the central nervous system interacting with this energy to give you that sensory experience. A guess because of the, the telepathic situations that I've had. And I went and verified them and talk to the people in person. I didn't just say, Oh my goodness, that's in my head. I'm not going to talk to these people. I knew these people, it's a small town and they do have schizophrenia, Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I, I, a lot of people really wouldn't do what I did, but I was very determined to know where these voices originated from and why I was hearing the things that I was hearing, because a lot of it, I mean, some of it was complete garbage. It was disgusting and messed up. And I didn't understand why I was thinking that way, why I was hearing these things and I verified it through two or three different sources. I've had four or five experiences where I could verify that it was the other person Yeah Oh yes. Yeah. Yeah. I told her they, they, they, they kept correcting me and kept saying visual hallucinations and auditory. And I kept saying visions and hearing voices. I was very, very much adamant on them knowing that I was hearing voices. And I had telepathic situations that I had benefited. In America? They just look at it like it's schizophrenia, it's all delusions and it's fake and there's nothing real to it. Mine have stopped because I have sent mail to myself. I sent certified mail with my rules and laws. I have receipts I've sent cease and desist letters to other telepaths or other schizophrenia works. So I wouldn't hear their voices anymore. And my cease and desist letter and telepathy and sounds. Well, there one was my really good friend and she told me the truth. And then the other one was just so many. I live next to me, but yes, I sent him both cease and desist letters and within the cease and desist letter, it included the telepathy and sounds Well, I think everybody was confused because two of these people were already hearing voices. Then I started to hear voices and I got thrown into that mix and nobody knew what was going on or why they were hearing this or why they were hearing that it was, it was insane. It was crazy. Nobody knew what was going on. Okay. I don't want to say what it was, but yes, it has happened to me quite a few times and didn't let me have some insight into what was going on. Okay. I was working at a factory and there was someone who has schizophrenia there to, and it turns out that when certain schizophrenia chicks make bad choices were bad habits, you know, like illegal drugs and stuff like that. And you can hear their voices, their privacy. Yes. I guarantee it because it's happened to me many times. And this dude that I worked with made bad choices, and it was a complete, annoying repetitious voices. That was like, it kept saying douce bag douce bag, do SPAG and so on and so forth. And he told me, he came up and told me that he was hearing voices. And I never said anything to him about hearing voices. I told him my friend of mine heard voices to kind of throw them off a little bit. And then I told him the truth, you know, like I don't have a occupation right now that the voices there at the job are terrible. Okay. They a, my old lady didn't like it. She said it was crazy and she pretty much kicked me out of the, the place I was living in. And I went to the parents because that was my next former support, because I didn't know what was going on. Okay, They treated me. They listen to everything I said, and they're very supportive about it. They don't, they believe what I'm saying. And, you know, I told him I'm about to telepathic situations and stuff like that in the links, I think it has to do with dreams and that type of energy. They're very supportive though. And so it was my old lady now, Well, I kind of isolated myself and I'm still pretty much isolated. And the only time I go to town is to talk to people that are having addiction troubles. And I talk to them about the possible consequences to those actions. Yes. Yeah. I support the people that are going through addiction problems and I tell them the possible consequence, they could start hearing voices and I try to scare them into thinking and associating that drug of choice with them Well, yeah, of course. Yeah. I love it. I love a good cold beer every now and again. I I'm talking about a Yeah hard drugs and stuff like that. Like for instance, the other day I went over to a friend's and he was having trouble with his choices and I tried to appeal to him on a religious level because he's very religious, You know, God will help him and stuff like that. And you know, I'm trying to appeal to them on a religious level. I've done that quite a few times. A couple of the people that were having problems with their addictions. I, I pretty much used the way they believe to try to support them, wanting to quit. I liked to, I liked to live dumbbells and I, I kind of slacked off and walked in here with the virus and whatnot, but I've gained a little bit of weight because I haven't been walking as much as I usually would walk about seven miles from here to town from here down. Okay. Yeah. You're walking into complete country, cows farms, horses. Okay. Ah, well, my plans is to eventually move to Iceland is one of my plans and well, let's see, Oh, I also also a to prevent other people from making the same choices that I made so that they don't hear the things that I hear. It's a prevention method. That's something else that interests me to try and help people like that. So because nobody told me Oh you could hear her voice was if you did this, no one told me that. So I'm going around and telling people you could possibly hear voices and get schizophrenia or psychosis. So I like doing that and my family lives in Iceland. Yeah. My three kids in my old lady, they moved to Iceland. She's from Iceland originally. That's the plan and that's the plan, but I, I believe that we're hearing voices by accident. I believe it's a complete accident and you're not targeted at all. It's just a weird reaction between the central nervous system in the energy that is around us. I believe it connects us to our environment really. Yeah. So I see what you're doing that all the time, you are always helpful to people, all the, so I try to do the same thing, but I'm, I feel like you're really kind about it. You're like really nice and supportive. I'm a little abrupt. I'm just like, yep. No, not really. I mean, I'll just tell people like it is, or I've had telepathic experiences. I've had visions, I've interacted with somebody whose dream while they were sleeping before and they woke up and told me that they were, had a dream about what I was thinking about. So I walked into another apartment and I was thinking that I saw a dog when I walked in, in this person, didn't have a dog. And then I walked up there to them and they woke up and they were like how he was just having a dream about a dog. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of like a negative thing. In my head or in real life, I don't know that I don't usually get bullied in real life because I'm, I'm, I'm not making or nothing, but I, my physical appearance is kind of stout. And as far as I've been told a lot and I usually, I'm just really nice to everybody and they don't bully me. Okay. Well, I believe that the targeted individuals have the right type of thought by coming together like they do, but they have the wrong type of motivation. They're saying that the government's out to get them and the government is not out to get them at all. If they came together and there were like, Hey, this is a, this was You too. Thank you for inviting me. I appreciate it. <inaudible> <inaudible>.Thank you very much. Very nice. Thank you. Yeah, 2005, the springtime. I remember I start getting thoughts about someone looking at me, procession. I don't know the English word for it, but it's like it was, if someone was looking at me all the time, even when I was alone, I experienced that. I start thinking if there may be cameras everywhere, looking at me or something. So it was, it was very heavy, but then it changed. It changed into something. It was like, I get visitors from someone else than me. It was like, it was the second person inside my head. And I start communicating with this person and I asked very many questions. What is this? What, what, who are you? What are you doing? And, and I remember it, it went on for maybe three or four weeks and, and then I, they connected something inside my brain. So my, my I got psychotic and it was very unpleasant because my life before was very bright. I look very bright on life and I was very happy with life. And I had a woman. I had job. I had everything suddenly my whole life was shrink into a little dark space with very much darkness around surrounding me. I was walking around in the streets. I'm looking, I saw an image of my body lying down, down on the ground everywhere. I went dead and it's like, and it went up. This went on for maybe a month. And, and these, I call them, people start talking to me and for, for a very strange, it was like, I could, I could almost think what they were thinking is like, they were connected to a space inside my brain that could communicate with them on a very strange level. And I asked them, who are you? And they said that we are dementia people on the, on the nursing home. And I said, w what is this? Is this research program? Yes. This is research program going on since the 1950s. And I ask, is this allowed to do? And then it becomes very, we start arguing because I didn't, I didn't accept this Richard program from existing because if the dimension people can go inside the brains of people in the streets and make them ill, that's very bad for the world. And that's roughly how it began. And of course you want to ask some questions. How do you feel about, because that's a psychotic delusion? How do you feel about that? Now? I'm still fighting them because they're still here. They're talking with my mouth and they, they can listening to my thoughts and they can even walk with my body. It's very scary. Okay. Okay. Fine, Johnny. I mean, that's quite scary experience, you know, because I think with schizophrenia, the worst aspect is, is that it can take away our ability to, you know, you don't know what part of the brain is affected. You can't trust your own brain anymore. You know, I think, you know, I see what you, I see what you mean. And that's when you see Coptic Dan it's. Yes, yes. I've been psychotic for 10 years and six months and four, five years ago, I took some TUPE mocks 400 milligram Topamax and it, and it suddenly disappear. So I haven't seen psychotic for almost five years now. And it's very nice because psychotic is very bad. Yeah. So what do you experience now? Do you experience any symptoms at all? Yes, of course. They still visit. They are still inside my head and in talking with me and, and doing things inside my brain, but it's not affecting me that much because now, you know, a psychotic is like you being in hell and being normal. It's like being in heaven. Yeah. Yeah. It's totally different state of mind. So Did you, are you religious? Like, do you have a spiritual outlet? Yes, of course. I, I believe in something bigger than me. Yes, of course. And I have been, I haven't been the best child of here in Norway. We have Christianity and I haven't been the best child of that, but yes, I believe there is something more powerful than me. So do you ever, do you have a look to God to help you? Oh, that was a very good question because these people inside my brain, they were in the beginning, they tried to make me believe that they were God. And, and I was joking about it because I saw some point of view, some point in my life. I said, I am God. And when they come inside my brain and saying they were God, just answer. No, I am God. And then the arguing begun. Yeah, man. I mean, it's a difficult, it's a difficult thing to experience, you know, because your brain is telling you one thing and you don't know what to believe. Tell me what it feels like. Can you tell me what it feels like when they speak to you in your head? What's the fee? What do you have you feel? Okay. First of all, they don't speak inside my brain. They speak with my move. Okay. Yeah. So it's very alive. It's like a cinema movie. Okay. I have to deal with it. So I'm trying to get past. Okay. And are you on medication Abilify. Okay. Okay. I don't notice the medicine very much because it's very, it's not strong, so I'm very happy with that. Okay. And do you have a support network? Yes, of course. I have the Norwegian health care. And what about your family or friends? Yes, I have family and I have lots of friends and you know, I, I talk about this to everybody. Okay. Spreading words about this inside the Facebook for Almost 15 years. So, Huh. What is your message that you want to put out there? I want to free the people in the streets and the dimension. People from governments research on telepathic. So you believe that people with dementia are being experimented on? Yeah. Okay. Okay, man, I'm dying. Yeah. I dunno. I dunno what it's like in Norway, but yeah, it's, that's not ideal situation. Really? No, it's not. It's not ideal. Is it? Okay. Johnny's tell me what, what do you, how do you feel about the future now? Because you said that when you were younger, everything was going well, and then things became darker. How do you see, you know, how can, how can life improve for you? Well, the psychiatrist says that the life experience expense Expectancy. Yes. Thank you. Approximately between 50 and 60 years on people like me with my diagnosis. Yeah. And no, I don't care about it because I don't know. You know, I work as an inventor. Yeah. I have checked my IQ. I have IQ on 150 plus. So the problem was when they comment side my brains and start doing the things they can do with the brain and the body, they didn't, they noticed that I very smart and that was not good for either me or them because they get very jealous and started to compete with me about who was the brightest. It was very sick, but it's okay. I can look back at it now and laugh of it. But you know, you have to try to understand how the dementia people think how they are too, because when they were young, they may, maybe didn't go so much on school and have a good education. And all they had was maybe life experience and things, but I have much life experience myself. So it wasn't, it was like it was competition all over the line. It was who was the smartest, who was the best and who was, and who was that? So, but the future, as, as I said, well, I'm working as an inventor and I invent many things, new, new technology. And of course the dimension people inside her brain find that very amusing and interesting. So they keep on staying here. But I really don't know. I, I, I have so many things to think about that. I have not no time to think about it. Yeah. I haven't, I haven't yet made a conclusion. No way. I love Norway. I went to Oslo in 2019, a beautiful city. You know, it's a beautiful country. I really, I want to go back to Norway. I really enjoyed my time. There. It's quite sort of, it's quite, quite, it's very, it's got beautiful countryside and it's all that Nordic culture, which is very interesting as well. I think, which is different to Y know, from London where London's a bit more kind of edgy streetwise, whereas all snow is more sort of culture. Then a bit more laid back, I think. Okay. So John, do you enjoy reading any books? No. I never read a book in my life. Why not? You have no, I have not. Of course, when I went to school, the magic I'm educated on engineer, but that was only majors and books for school. Yeah. You don't read literally The mathematics and physics and chemistry and all these things Degree. What was your degree In? I'm an engineer in house building in Norway. In mechanical engineering. No, no, no, no, no civil engineering. No, no, no, not civil it's architecture. No, no, no, no house building. Okay. Okay. I know very much about houses in Norway because they are very special builds. Yeah. I think, I think the Nordic style of houses, it's very modern. It's quite so forward thinking. Walls, wood, lots of installation. Insulation. Lots of glass. Yeah. I think it's a, your light in, I, I can calculate beams and all the things in the house. Okay, cool. That's good. Yeah. Okay. Johnny, what about films? What sort of films do you like To be honest with you? I do not have a television. Okay. I haven't had a television for seven years. So why do you like to read or watch television? I like to think I like to use my brain and of course I am very much inside the Facebook, reading other people's opinions and stuff. I try to keep up with the world. Okay, cool. Cool. Do you smoke Johnny? Yes. I smoke a tea. Okay, cool. That's good. And also, have you experienced any discrimination? It has some, but I don't care because it's not difficult. Why? I don't care. I think, I think you've got a strong personality you believe in, you've got your own theory about the hallucinations you believe in it. And I think you should, you should be for fray. You should be strong in your past. Silencee that's very important. You know, don't let other people treat you badly, you know, you, you, yeah, definitely. I think you're, you're a very likable person, you know? So that's the important thing, you know? So, so Johnny, wow. What else I'm going to ask you is why I want to ask you, is there anything that I haven't asked that you would like to talk about? Well, you know, this dimension, people had told me many strange things and they can do many strange things to my body, but I, I have a message for the world and this research program will be shut down. Okay. I will make sure of that. It kills people. I'm actually, I'm a singer, so I like to sing opera Yeah. Hi, I'm fine. Thanks so much. Sorry for my English also. Yeah, it's not perfect. So its fine in English. Actually I'm from Syria, from Raqqa city and in 2015, I was in Raqqa city ISIS. You know, so when I was, there and the situation was fairly difficult , bombing every day. Like my life was a little dangerous, so I was afraid of death. Like every day I had this fear of death was not a hallucination or something. It was real fear actually. Yeah in that time I was living with my family and you know, our city, we had also, we, we were refugees in Syria, the same in our country, because we move it from Raqqa to another place. No. Well, when I decided to come to Germany, I decided the Lord to come it's was like the, the, the role of the way from Syria to Germany was really dangerous also So and they don't, they don't want to live in the country. So I came alone, so I left my family there. My father and my, my parents on that, Yeah, that was out of a low, actually it was like fear of death everyday, or a fall from ASIS or from a bomb being from LASA, 3g, him or something like this. It was really difficult there. So, and I decided to come to Germany, I move it to <inaudible> and then I came with this board, if you, I don't know if you'll know the story about this boat, but a lot of people are dying in the, Yeah. This a thing. So I think what I've with the situation in Syria, my life in Syria, and this is the way from Syria to Germany is dangerous way all. So I think every, all of these things that are hard, this is the reason for schizophrenia, the schizophrenia. Yes, of course the session in Germany or the first year here also, it was not easy. It was difficult. And also I was living in an account for like very bad cause then in a tent or so for two months I live in the mirror. It's so many people, I don't know. I'm not used it to live in this way. When what's hundred people are in one tent. Yeah. That was something that was strange also for me. And after that also in the first year here in Germany, it was like, I think also that, that was another reason effected me, which is for me because I was a, they left my family, my friends, everything, I lost my studying my everything. So how did you hear me now? Yeah. 'cause I got the call. So I was in a bad situation. I started to drink a lot of alcohol smoke, weed and so on. And this also, that was, Yeah, so I can say that the situation was really bad in the first year here in Germany. I am in Germany seems like a four and a half years. Yeah. And the first year I was like, yeah, actually it was bad. But after that, after a one year here or in Germany or in 2017, I arrive at, to Germany in 2015. And in November, in 2017, a in January, I, I went, I ended up in the hospital and actually, yeah. Yeah, in January of 2017, I went to the hospital for one month after a while they told me not to have a schizophrenia. So they didn't know which kind of schizophrenia after the live, like five months ago, I went to the hospital again. So they told me that I have a paranoid schizophrenia. Oh no. How do I, do you heard that yet? Actually in 2017, when I went at this time, we went to the hospital. I was like in another world, I was thinking, I dunno how it's called, but it's like, and I was thinking in a row and another ward, you know, paranoid thoughts. And so on, after a while in the house, after the hospital for like four months, I was terrible. Now I have no symptoms, I think. Yeah. It was a gentleman zero. And I started taking my medication. Actually. It was like just the injection, everyone after that, I felt all right. I thought, no, I have nothing. I don't have to schizophrenia why I need to take this. So I decided to call the it alone. I didn't talk to the doctor. And I, and I was asked for a one year I was doing well, my wife was good. I started a brand in the warehouse. Yeah. What my life was. I learned chairman also in this time or the one year everything was all right after that the parents come like in Kenya again, this thoughts. So we went to the hospital again. I stayed there for one month after two months. I know y'all, it was like five months ago now. I feel all right. Also I have a lot of time, but also I think, well, I mean, Okay. Okay. I also, I thought I don't how she gives you a free and you know, but my doctor and I, I have so many doctors in the hospital apart for the doctors, all of them talked to me and they say that I have, but I don't know if she was afraid in this case, if it was like, just two times in 2017, I have like the symptoms and five months ago, it come from a game. Yeah. And in a different world, I was living in enough. You know? And that's why, that was the reason why I caught my injection when the one and a half years ago, when I came with Yeah, I know. Yeah. I don't know, actually. Yeah. There's things I need to talk with my doctor about it. I think if we can't, do you hear me? Yeah. Yeah. I think we can't decide that. But what, what you think you would think I don't have she's a friend now. No. Yeah. And now what would you like to talk about actually the situation now in Germany or, you know? Yeah. I see my doctor. He is also a speaker Arabic. My mother's time is from each of you to tell them regularly every three months we talk a little bit. Yeah. So actually now I have some hope that it was like one or two months ago. It started to get help. I gained peoples. I started again to do in a month to do my panties. Chef, you go to a school. I learned, I learned German more every day. I, yeah, I think I'm living now with the nurse. She had the flood with the German students. On a low I quite stable. Yeah. I don't hear voices or I have to login. I have no delusions. I every Yeah This yes. You know the symptoms, I don't have it, but sometimes I don't have the motivation, want something to do some, all my stuff for the morning for my apprenticeship and so on. And I don't have This motivation all of the time, you know? Yes. Yeah. I can say the situation now it's like in Syria or something, my life is better now. I got the help from the government in Germany. I would, because I do proud of the shift so I don't get enough money. So they helped me. They helped me with, with German cars is also, and also I'm learning German now too. Like the volunteer as a translate for people who can't speak German in a German, actually I can help them in the camp or something. I'm doing something like this now, you know, in the same time with my apprenticeship, In the warehouse actually like it it's called the, I forgot that, that there was a, sorry, Okay. Yes. Thank you for your opinion. And actually for the goal was, and yeah, so yeah, I, I lost everything I told you in Syria. So I started at zero here. If I don't have hope, I will kill myself actually on to some things I need to go home to live. I can't see it. Yes. I started here. I knew with schizophrenia and they have to Canton to count. Cancel is stylish. Don't know what the English word off it actually I'm like, yes, I have to learn to fight or something like this. I just need to look at a spotlight in this study. So I need it. If I give up, Yeah. So actually I just liked music. I try, I'm trying now to learn, to play a guitar. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I like the music so much. I like metal music actually more than everything. Yeah I got a lot of friends here from the, from the love of things. Yes. We, I met a lot of people hear in nightclubs or something for heavy metal music. Actually, the first thing that helps me to integrate in the deaf community here in, you know, society. <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.I'm doing well. Duncan thank you for having me. It's not that it's, it's a rising a little bit, but people are still doing what they're doing. I'm still working, unfortunately. So yeah. It's not that it's not that bad. Yeah. Things started for me just one day or I heard a voice that spoke to me and I quit my job. And I mean, this is a slowly progressive up to this in a ways. And I quit my job and fasted when I go fast pretty much. So I felt that's what I was to do and stopped eating completely fast. It for like 40 something days and only start to eat because I was afraid. And let me tell you those in those days were a hellish. 18. So I, you know, finished high school and then I was working for a bid and then that's when it started, you know, and yeah, when I started going that direction and, you know, so, so, yeah, so I went in to this fast and after I, I, I, I broke it because I was afraid I was going to die and then was going for a bit during this time though, it was a lot, like I had been seeing demons in my family as demons in which he does, and even before the fast, but it just intensified then. And so after I broke it, I did it again. And it was after that. And my mom had called the emergency services and then they took me to the hospital and a that's when they told me to speak to the doctors and stuff, they diagnosed me. They noticed me with paranoid schizophrenia, with delusions of grandeur. So I've thought it was a prophet or something like that. Yeah. That was going on. I, I, I was, I thought that his voice was a God, you know, and ah, for a while, and I've been feeling like, Oh, that's what I was supposed to be fast in or whatever it is. So what a voice spoke to me, he said, I'll give you a one week. And I interpreted that as a, that's what it meant. Cause that's, what's being going into my head and in, yeah. So it's just, I just went from there and it's just been a, it was a pretty dark experience. Yeah. It's a good start having hallucinations, a visual hallucinations, a auditory. And yeah. So when the doctors recognized at a pretty quick and, and having spoken to them and telling them what I was thinking, cause a voice told me that that was a prophet. And, and so I just, I was honest with him. And so, yeah. I was, yeah, it was terrifying because everyone I saw were like demons or, or, or witches. And they were reading, my mind is like this big conspiracy against me, you know? And so it was like, I was like the only person that was not a part of this collective, you know what I mean? So it was pretty an isolating situation. Right. And so when I'm talking to the doctors, I was afraid of them because they were reading my mind as well. You know, so I was, I would speak sometimes in, and sometimes the boys would tell them to not speak. So I'll just, I would stop talking and it was just odd, weird situation. So they could see that, that delusion, that, that we, I was acting that there was definitely a, not only that was, it was skin and bones by the time when they brought me in. Yeah. Hospital for maybe some months, the first time, you know, they've put me on these meds and so forth. And once they did all this, I gave it to get my, my number's up. And then when I wouldn't eat for a good while, while I'm still in there, I was just, they've started to feeding with a tube feeding tube there and yeah. So they did all that. And then after a while, I'm thinking I'm, I can't do this fastened thing because I'm a fan and fed this to be this tube. So what I did was I started eating and that in there with a purpose of just giving out so I could start doing it again. And that's kind of what happens. So I was out for a couple of months, again, eating and just playing the part, trying to pretend everything is good and I'm sitting in and out and then eventually I'll stop. And this whole thing starts over again. And it was like a cycle for some years actually. And yeah. So, Yeah, yeah. That's it. That's what it was. They, they, they said it was religiosity or something. He is what they called him. And that's why they, it was explained it to me that there was a fixed delusions. And so they ask why they did when the meds weren't working on different meds. And then they decided to try ECT electroconvulsive therapy. So I did that like three times or something like that. Yeah. So enough to know that it was nice. It still didn't work. Oh, I was still in the same pass. So we eventually wanted to commit me to a longterm care facility where they are going to give me a gastric, a little tube in my stomach they're so they could feed me cause it, the tube and my nose done to my nasal gastric tube. Wasn't it wasn't a longterm solution. But the way in my head, my health going in its up and down thing for all these years, I figured, well, they are gonna have to put a hole in my stomach and feed me with this, a tube permanent, a two of my stomach. So at a long-term care facility. And, but my mom, thankfully, it was not a to fall into the idea. So yeah. So she figured if he goes there, she didn't drive. So shouldn't be able to come and visit me as often as she does know what the hell are they gonna treat me? They're so it's a bigger, you know what, at least she'll have me home for sometime. And you know, if I go to a hospital, they could visit me. And so that, you know, was, yeah, that's kind of how it worked out. 'cause it was a, I could imagine a frustrating thing for the doctors because they do all these things and everything's going to Okay and then I leave and then I see someone's later I come back in the same condition as I was at first time and they're trying different things and nothing's working what they do. Right. No, I didn't. I didn't. But there was a point where it was a point where I don't know, I I'd just, I heard of a voice. It spoke to, you know, this is all his voice in the devil in God and ends up another, a voice spoke to me in, I just said, well, what am I doing? You know, it was like, Oh, this is a God. But you know, and then from that point I realize, you know, and I got to, I got to get a, I, I can't do this anymore. So yeah, from that point on his, when I stopped the caring on the psych, I realize this is, this is not God, this is, this is just being taken for a ride here. So when I, once I was able to, I don't know why for some reason, I cannot tell you, How why in the world, I heard his voice so many times and asked me to, to God. And this time I know I said, okay, it's not for me. You know? And so once I was able to recognize this is a lie, it became easier to not continue to cycle. You know what I mean? So I always like this. This is a illusion that the cash is over your mind. And then once you see through the illusion and you know what, the power that he has is no longer there, No? No, actually I should. You know what I shouldn't say, I just snapped out of it like that. That's not how it went. I wasn't suicidal. The fast thing was to get me to a different state, I guess, so I can go and do what God wanted me to do it, but I had to go through this process. Now I became suicidal afterward. When I realized that this wasn't a God and I thought I'm trapped because I was thinking that God is going to set me free from these voices and all this stuff. So now when I realized that that's not, God, I know I'm thinking all of these voices and the, this hatred that I feel the world has for me in this constant torment in my mind. But I, the only hope I had, the only hope I really had to continue was it that I, that I'd be delivered from it, but now that's not going to happen and know the terrible burden from me. So there was no more reason for me to live. And at one point, my heart started calling for like, it was like a hot burning sensation in there that I want it to go out and take a knife and reach it. You know what I mean? So I approached that point of suicide because that's the whole way I could escape this torment. And this misery, it is heavy misery. I had walked the streets of night at night, crying, crying, because I felt so hopeless. And to go into this bottomless pit of despair, this is where it was men. A strong on it. And I was there. I put, held that knife to my chest and I was ready. But is it a pretty close? What is from that moment that I, I don't know. Something just said, that was a thought. I said, what are you doing, man? Like, why are you doing this? Or it says your a coward. I'm like why? And then I realized, you know, 'cause, you're only here because you are afraid. You're afraid that Pete you're you're, everybody's rejecting you and you're going to, and you, and you don't want to live with this. This con always anxious. This anxiety came over me when I was like around people. So I couldn't, I would sweat. I'd love being alone. 'cause I would feel better. And it was a, is a, it's a it's it was more peaceful being alone with the tormentors of my mind than it was being around people. It was worse, you know? So it was a story messed up. States No. No, because remember I'm seeing it as people, as witches in his demons when you really want to kill me. And so now they're reading my minds all in my mind was constantly cursing and it was like Tourette syndrome, except in my mind, I couldn't stop it. All right. I would repeat this same things with Walgreen of things all the time people were. And all of these are people I'm talking to my family, my friends, whatever. And I'm saying these awful things. And then, and they read it and they'll sometimes would say a comment on what are the things that's come to my head. So I would, I was always trying to stop it because I hated it and the, but I stop it. And so I would get all anxious and afraid and, and just so I would just be sweating because I was so nervous trying to stop this awful thoughts. So when I was alone, now, it wasn't as bad because you know what I mean? That I was in so anxious, you know, that the anxious he has left, the thoughts are still there constantly. I honestly, from, from the first time that I started it, I never had a moment of quiet in my mind until I went to sleep. When I woke up, it was right there to greet me every day. Every moment, always my mind was going, I've talking to somebody that couldn't even pay attention to what I was saying, because I'm telling this voice is shut up, shut up, shut up. Yeah. You know, constant. Yeah. So, A man that was from the, probably even before I started at a fast, that was a little bit before that actually the voice speaking, repetitive, stuff like that. So from that time till about maybe man, that was probably like 28, 29, or maybe, maybe 30 or something like that. When I started, when I talk about then still, when things start to get better for me mental, why is it that voice there? But yeah, it was just from the start to the hole that many years constantly. Okay. Well, like I said, the, the, the first thing was recognized and this was it. It was a lie this whole fast in there was no, God talks to me and telling me to do this stuff. And when I, when I go into that point of despair and recognizing that I am only interested in killing myself, because one, I'm a really afraid of everybody. I am afraid of, of just the, the, the, the constant rejection I felt. So from that point, I realized, you know what I actually said to myself, well, yeah, I'm a coward. I thought, Oh, I'm not going to do this. You know what? I'm gonna live. I'm gonna live simply because people don't want me to live as a, you know what? They don't want to kill me, let him, let them kill me. I'm not gonna do their jobs for this. So this is still a D all this delusion docking, but that pulled me out from that brink. And I just got started with your stubbornness, really, just to be stubborn. That's the only reason why I wanted to live. And then from then I started to really say, you know what? It says that that's more of my attitude. And then it became, well, I'm not gonna live in my room anymore after it. So that's where my old, my favorite place was. I had never used to greet my family, that he would come home and they come to see me because it would be high in a way in my room. So what I did, and now I started the challenge, all that I use to be so anxious, 'cause I, I hate being around people. So, no, I really, like I said, you know what, I'm going to go, and I'm going to talk to my mom. And I'm just, instead of holding back, I'm trying to protect my S my thoughts are being corrupted. I'm not a dozen, I'm not, that's not me. So why am I focusing on something that's not me? So just ignore that and just go and just say, hi, and B try to be normal, try to just relax. And that's gonna, how things start to just 10 minutes men. And he felt like after like 10 minutes a day, or how did that start? And it was such a, a, a after I left that, that, that my presence of somebody else that was such a relief. So it goes a little difficult to stand there and not be disturbed, you know, with the anxiety and fear as well for it. So I just practice like that with my family. And the more I did it, the more comfortable it became over time. And, you know, till I started to go outside for walks, and then I started seeing people and it started saying hi to them, and just, just challenging the things that were pushing against me and that push back a little bit until I'm like, yeah, I kind of a, you know, getting more and more regained, more and more of my self. Yeah. So from their Yeah, I went to, I did that for months and over a long, it was when I went in, I got a job. One of the, it it's a hard time at first. And it was the same thing, just in a different environment. So this is, so it was a whole, I still got to get an egg, all the things that I did at home, I had to take that and bring it on a work scene now. And this is a bigger setting and it was a heavy thing, but I got through it. Okay. I did. I hate it. I didn't want to be around anybody, but my thankful it, my, my mom, my family were a grid man in my family. They were supportive. My mom, especially, she fought from me and she, she took, you know, the men, she enacted the mental care and here where they can, somebody is not a danger to themselves or others, then they can take away, have rights or what a person, you know, so pretty much she made decisions for me to go to the hospital because I did it when I was here. The first time I signed myself out. But now when she took over guardianship, I couldn't do that. You know, everything, you have to go through her. And so she really fought for me, you know, whatever it, whatever issues was, she took it on. And my family, my sister's. And so where are they all came together, supported me, friends, a lot, a lot of friends on the way, but a lot of it is I rejected everyone pretty much. So that's kind of, that was why I was alone from the fringe a thing on a ways. So I, I don't know how people would have, would have acted I'm in that respect. So it was pretty good. And man, I'm pretty much like where it was before all of the foolishness started. I a R further, I guess, for all of the head, but I don't have any, any of that S symptoms anymore. I got into the, I ended up getting, getting to the trades, got my red seal electrical. So I've worked full time of my place here, where I live with my girlfriend. Okay. So we're going to get married soon. So pretty much had recovered. I, you know what, for a long time, my found has been telling me to my mom is special. You know what? You should write a book are you should listen to me because just looking from where it was to where I am or a God to when she was telling me about that, it was night and day. And, you know, she, she gave me a, a journal that she capped and it was just reading this stuff is just how broken. And she was watching me going through that, wandering if I'm ever gonna recover and talk with the doctor and said, is it pause or is it possible for Paul to returned to where he was? And she was like, no, like the doctor said 99% of, of all, sorry, 1% of people are diagnosed with schizophrenia, recover to the point that they don't need medications. And so as your sun is not one of them and just when it was going on, what it looked like. I can't believe him for saying that, but, and me defying all that out and gotten to where I was a, it was incredible it to her, you know? So she said that, and I had kind of said, not people want to hear that stuff, man, because it was, you know, it's a lot different than what we're told and people, sometimes we just listen to what we're told and it might have experts or so forth. And so we kind of go with that. So I'm like, ahh, but I don't know. After, after some years of kind of rejecting that, I started thinking, you know, I'm like, I've been given this opportunity to take this path and recover it to where they see it was impossible or is it right for me to keep that to myself? You know what I mean? So I decided to kind of share that and you want to share a process and how I got through that, my mental attitude and just kind of the, the, what it took for me to regain my life. And that is not as necessarily as impossible as we're told, but yet there is hope even with, in the midst of this darkness, that is a schizophrenia, there was definitely hope. A a hundred percent And, you know what? Isolation is a killer when you feel you're alone. And I had been there when I would say that I was alone. And by myself, I wouldn't talk to anybody about what I was struggling with. And that's the power of the illnesses to keep people isolated. Once your isolated, you know, you don't get help because now you don't trust anybody or you feel so alone that no one would understand you, but we don't want to take the chance because we feel, or how we're going to be treated. Are we going to be looked at, so it still, we don't want to be in that position. So it was kind of, I don't want to empower people to kind of put themselves out there and talk about it, but you need help get help. And the, because when you are alone, when you are isolated, it's, it takes you down a darker, deeper and darker place. And it tend to go a spiral just into a, a worst state then coming forward, getting help and kind of don't follow so far. Like the way I did almost, it almost took my life. Yes, that's the morning miss nine to nine above schizophrenia. Okay. All right. I just change the name of it. It was a, sorry. It was, it was beyond schizophrenia, but it was raw above and beyond schizophrenia. So to speak with you today, Paul <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.I'm doing pretty good for the most part. Well, I don't know that anything to do with the fact that I had a bark at that, that only one nostril was open and they can't do surgery until I was about three to try to fake sat. I have memories that I didn't really have until I started getting more stable on medication in my thirties of just different things throughout my childhood. Like when I was really little, would have reoccurring dreams of like their figure chasing me dark shadows, just things that, Would put off as into daydreaming, so to speak. I believe my toys were real that I would see them real move around if things like that. And, and then trauma trauma throughout, throughout, you know, the, Yeah, kids will be kids and my sisters and one of my cousins actually stuffed animals. And that really, yeah, they were my real friends and everything. And so then they were dead and No, I wouldn't have like things that I would later have wired for that. It didn't have words for the like, fill off how it flying with like some spirit or something with me. What really happened for my experience, the doctors is that I did well hiding that I was no stranger, mentally disturbed. You know, I thought I was just a monster. And if anybody really knew me, they, you know, firmly away locked the door, you know, never, never turned back. I was 17 and I had to get my, my parents were very good Timmy and my sisters, we had everything we need wanting whatever, But there was a lot of bullying from one of my sisters and a lot of bully from on the bus. I would ride every day, a lot of stress, the stress when I'm in stress, repeating a stress that fight or flight, you know, adrenaline, whatever, just, It gets me into that supersonic kind of, I call it more of a lockup oversew tree, sensory overload. I'm not making any future on that because I'm so nervous. And it's hard to organize yourselves with the pressure of the 18. Yeah. At, at 17 had the stress of my grandmother passing away and both of us, his church stress of them being in weddings. And it was, I was fucking out of the 12th grade and I was just running around with the wrong crowd then. And just, I was still working in school and everything. And it was just so much, I just had to get some help. And the doctor just diagnosed me as depressed. I really had not had that much symptoms. It Gadens and goes, you know, with me, I have the diagnosis. Finally, if I pull her one at about age 22, And that kind of explained a lot of things because I would have up for days sleep for days, time, routine thing going on the rapid faults. I didn't know if I had voices or whether they were just me playing tapes over my head. I knew they, you know, I've always, You kind of dealt well with anything to be wrong with you. It's like, there's two sides of the coin you want to be well. And your mom plays with trying to tell you that you're well, and that you're not really, you know, mentally ill. And then you have the other side that tells you, yes, you are follow everything you're supposed to do and do it. And it's, it's tricky. You have to, you know, I do a lot of, yeah, I was really lucky after, at 19 I met my H has that and we were together 13 years, married for 11, had two sons, a stepdaughter in teenage cases. I've had very half net of times in my life. And then I've had times where I couldn't even look at a clock and read it. It's so Difficult to pinpoint exactly what's going on. And till you start getting to lots support groups and diving again, research and finding out about your illness and learning, it's no different than having diabetes or heart disease or anything else that has to be treated. And that it's okay not to be okay. And so I've gone through, you know, thinking, well, maybe it's not schizophrenia, maybe it's a journal overload or, you know, maybe it try to be off medication, which sent me into a very Mess and I was homeless. And at the time family stuff thought it was my choices Ang, you know, didn't understand the middle of this. I didn't understand the middle illness, you know, going on to Getting to a point where it, no, there was always chaos. Yeah. I didn't know if I Schizophrenia or just to the bipolar or what kind of, you know, I've, there's different periods of my life that have had different, you know, different and different, you know, could fall into different categories of what they call a mental things. You know, there's, there's been times that my law, you know, but the schizophrenia started getting the worst where I was just detaching and from people, you know, I was friendly with everyone, but I wasn't very close to anyone in my teenage years, preteen, lot of vending, imparting, constitute bullying from family and peers. It just started, you know, suicidal thoughts and just, just to over wellbeing, you know, emotional, Oh yes. My oldest just got married of in November of last year when the boys were nine 11, my biggest mental problem came about that thought my husband had tried to poison me and it was some emotional abuse and some other types of abuse and ended up going to a domestic violence shelter and just S I had let them go with family and to be kids for the summer. Me and my sister, there was always an antagonistic thing with my was one of my sisters. You know, my husband would always say, you know, if you, if you leave me, I'll fight you for the kids. Your parents will thought me and then Becky you'll end up with the kids, you know? And that was like my worst fear because being her head so that she Teijen and can get on the same page, she is an amazing, wonderful, caring being. We just didn't see either way. We carried out things and it just escalated to a point where I had a suicide Kia. I had taken out all the pills. I was on so many medications and, and take a ton of, and to, and walked up to the, was from my parents' house and went to lay down. And I know it was an act of God that he walked me back up and I walked back out of the, was about the time she was arriving with, with rescue and since, and not fighting for getting the charcoal to get everything out of our system. I had, like I said, suicide felt from the top. I was know five or six really first, really had a plan and intent to do something that really at 16, I've had a couple of to medication my medications and just happened to wake up the next day and go about my business. Like nothing, nothing you'd have it because, you know, Ted even do that. Right. Yeah. I mean, I've been through thyroid cancer, I've been through, you know, part of the, the worst of the voices and the other Tory staff was when I was 20 to 23, I had had a miscarriage before I had my son. I was pregnant with my first son when I was 21. And I would always hear a baby cry all the time when there wasn't a baby crying and I never told anybody about it until your laugh. And I, you know, he would be there and I would be looking at him and I mean, he'd just be, have the V kiss, a little thing, you know, and just be completely okay. You know, my, my children have, they're my saving graves. You know, I've also been diagnosed with narcolepsy, but some, I just went to the sleep doctor again, because you know, everything is such a, I wouldn't say it's, the balancing is more of a ways and measures kind of thing. You know, we, I go up with the weight to get, get on the middle and then had to focus on the physical and losing weight. And sometimes that comes up with going back on a different medication that doesn't treat all the schizophrenia right now. I'm, I'm positive panic yet. It works the best for me. You know, it's the only FDA approved for schizophrenia, I believe. And I know of, and it requires a blood test every week for the first six months. And I only have one vein that has seen me through the cancer and the birth defects and the two emergency since Varian's and blah, blah, blah, blah, you know, through life and donating blood at times and everything. And it's just so hard to during the blood work. That's why I gave up last time I was on it. I was on yet. I was on a plant-based product called plexus. And on top of that, and I was on that, you know, I was able to attend church regularly without any religious off the date, because I have a whole lot of that, you know, Elvis see visions. I would see the pages, words on the pages where you're ranked, reading the Bible, you know, all the time, have no patients being given to humanity for a while longer three times, you know, it saved the world three times, you know, for being on a God trail. You know, I kept cutting off going back on the medications after I left my ex husband, because I wanted to see if it was just the chaos and everything. And after a while, it was so severe hallucinations, either Tori visual, that I was just walking around the streets and, you know, there was no bringing me back down to reality. I was on a reality show with God, you know, and supposedly the mayor had cameras everywhere, recording everything. And, you know, it was just some of the best towns in my life because I was so close to God. I had, I'll never forget. I had finally decided to stop being a bag lady and I threw away all, but, you know, gave away and threw away all my belongings I had then, you know, carrying around, walking around. And I just, my last thing was my bank card. And I put it in the, and I had two gift cards that got to give to my nieces, but I ended up putting them in the mailbox of a church. And, you know, I was giving everything to God and I was so close to God and everything seemed so at peace and the first contentment I'd ever had in my life, really, Well, knowing that I Ended up, I've been the hospital so many times and, you know, there was no help for me left, you know, pretty much saw everything. And anyways, it just, you know, it divine act that I've gotten the right help that I have. It's been a journey. You know, it took a lot of just keep pushing to research the bipolar shove out. God helps me so much just raising the bar a little bit more and more has helped so much, you know, I still have, that was draw to myself because that's just how I have to do it. At times I get that sensory overload. I mean, it's just like, I'm picking up too much. And I start things, start interacting with me and, you know, everything means something when From my experience, those that I've talked to, that I know from mental health support groups and just friends and everything that have, you know, schizophrenia test that it is, you know, a lot of people have tunnel vision. They just see theirselves and what's in front of them and everything. And I've noticed that a lot of the schizophrenia, we, our view as like majorly out there, you know, we're over hot and sensitive, I guess that's where I've worked through a lot of the paranoia, but the, no, I'm not that special. And I nobody's really paying that much attention to me and no, that's just, you know, I've, I've done so much cognitive work and trauma work and recovery work and just being on the cause of pain that works right now, I've been on it again for six months when I was saying, you know, I had to quit taking that last time because of the blood work, not being feasible, it's so hard to get to, I couldn't keep it up. So I had to get on something else, but I've had, you know, it's just, if what works and tell them that caused the pain and places, which is probiotics and prebiotics and worked the best for me, because I'm learning with a lot of the new information with, you know, so much of our brain is that through the gut and the neuro-transmitters and everything, you know, also a lot of the symptoms I believe of schizophrenia may not just be schizophrenia. I mean, they, some of the symptoms are the same things for, you know, like Amit diseases, you know, you can look at there's lots of correlation, everything image in between with even Alzheimer's and stuff. And I'm sorry, I try not to Well, I'm glad I finally got to, sorry. It took so long to finally get with it. Well, I'm into the sea from the South, you know, you had grew up with a lot of country. There's a Tim McGraw, humble and con is one of my favorites. I've been listening to a lot. Like, I'll see what I can do. So I just want to thank you again, Victoria. You're strong. <inaudible> stay right here with you when you fall until it all breaks down. So I will stay around when you're <inaudible>.Right. Okay. So in the beginning I was in the army, I just got sent home from basic training. I had injuries to my legs and during the time period, I became very a secluded. I really didn't talk that much. I pretty much shut down and you know I just assumed okay it's just basic depression or something like that not a big deal but then as time went on eventually I started seeing people from the military coming into my room and and like taking things from my room and stuff like that experience yeah and it was terrifying I mean, I ended up waking up my parents and freaking out, you know, I was, I was scared because I was like, I don't understand what's going on. And eventually I went and saw a doctor for it. And once I did, they are just like, you know, they had me do tests and ask about the symptomsan and, you know, in the end they were just like, Hey, this looks like Schizophrenia. No, I wouldn't say that. I mean, I've, I've lived in the military most of my life, you know, I went through a ROTC for quite a few years in high school and stuff. I was pretty prepared for it. I don't know. I think I had just got unlucky, you know, I think I was probably late 18. Yeah. It was the late 18. Whenever it was first tossed around that, that's probably what the diagnosis was. Unfortunately, I kinda ran away from that, you know, I, I was fearful, but the idea of being diagnosed with it, so it was like, okay, I'm just going to kind of push it down and hopefully it goes away. Yeah. Well, it was, it was a mess. The first two years, right after the initial diagnosis was a mess. I ended up, I ended up running away from the army, you know, the army contacted me and said, look, you can't just disappear. You can't just not show up. But I was so scared, you know, I was so scared of what was going on. Eventually they ended up discharging me out. And then, then at that point I was like, okay, I've got to find a job. So I did a bunch of little knickknack jobs here and there, but, you know, it seemed like no matter what I did, eventually the sickness would come back. And when it did every time, it just, it ruined whatever job I was in or any type of stability I really had. It's, you know, it, after so many years of having it, I've learned to adapt to it a lot better, especially from when I was younger. I mean, when I, when I, like I said those first two years, I mean, I was in and out of homelessness. I was doing a lot of drugs and alcohol to try to ignore the problem. It wasn't until, you know, I met my wife and I finally decided, okay, it's time to really kind of sober up and try to figure this out. Yes. If I get too stressed out, if I haven't had enough sleep in a extended period of time, if a very loud noises consistently, it can cause me to get sick pretty quick. And then, you know, sometimes even if none of those things happened, sometimes that just starts that. I mean, it just, it can happen, but now I'm better equipped to deal with it. And then I was back then, that's for sure. Yeah. Oh yeah. It, it absolutely was ki and it still is to this day support is everything. It really is. I mean, without support, it's so easy to just give up, you know, and, and with having the wife, having the kid, it makes it to where, you know, I got to kind of look at the big picture and say, you know, yes, it sucks that I'm in this situation. I am with it, but you kind of have to deal with the cards that you're dealt. Oh my goodness. Yeah. It's a great day. A scary ones are, Oh man, they are a rough. So I'm a scary ones where, you know, there was a, a, there was a time period were I thought that for Sure people who are trying to kill me, he, you know, without a doubt, there were no people obviously tried to do that. But in your mind when these delusions are hitting you, you think no matter what is just absolutely true. And you know, it, it, it gets frightening. I mean, you'll lock the doors and I've had times where I've put furnitures up against the, a, the doors in the windows to make sure that people couldn't get in the house to get me. And I'm, you know, sometimes it gets to where, you know, when it's in that kind of situation, like I was saying before, you really need someone there to kind of help pull you out of it, you know, kind of sad. Yeah. Okay. I guess the last time I really had a, like a really bad a issue was I about a year ago I was hospitalized and I was absolutely just scared of everyone. I'm a person in that when it gets to that point, I'm so frightful that I may stop eating because I'm afraid that people are like poisoning my food. You know, I won't talk to anyone cause I'm afraid that their may be taking notes on me or recording my conversations. And when I got sent to the hospital, the nurses felt bad. Cause you know, I refuse the sit in the bed. I was hiding in a corner. I would like barricaded myself in a corner of the room and a, you know, they are, but the good thing was, you know, the hospital was nice. They, they really try to accommodate me, you know, and I, you know, let them know it was like, look, I'm not aggressive in any way. I'm just terrified. I'm scared that everyone is out to get me right now. And I just need to, to get past this. So it can be interesting. Its hit and miss, depending on the hospital you go to, obviously I've had a couple that I went to an Oklahoma and a, one of the one's in Oklahoma was amazing to let you go outside. You're a label. You you're actually able to be out like out in the sun, you are able to talk to your family and have visits. It really felt nice being there. And it helped a lot with the recovery, but I've also had ones where it's pretty much like a prison. I mean, you get locked away into a room, you know, if someone comes in occasionally and they give you some medicine and they take your, your vitals and that's it, that's the interaction you get for the day. Okay. Well, I tried to be open is, is open about it as I can with everyone. You know, a lot of people are scared, you know, they, they read the news and all they hear is about people doing crazy things and, you know, hurting themselves or others. And, and, you know, mild thing is, you know, it can get rough, don't get me wrong. You know, there are those bad times, a year. Things are scary, but I would try to let them know, you know, it's not always like that. You know, if, if people were there to help us support, US be there for us. You would see a lot less of these, a dangerous symptoms. It definitely doesn't help. Ah, you know, a lot of people really don't know the illness, you know, they hear about it. But when I tell them and explained to them what its like having this kind of a sickness, a lot of people are just like, wow, I never really knew. It was like that. You know, they either assume its like a split personality disorder or something like that. Or they just automatically assume that you're just some psycho who's needs to be locked away. You know? And I'm like, you know, it's, it's not always chaos and, and scariness you, you know, Well, there was, there was a, it can be kind of funny sometimes cause here in the United States, a lot of the mental hospitals have people who are recovering from drugs. So, and they'll put us together and we really don't know whose just recovering from drugs and who's there because they are having mental problems. So, you know, you'll notice that a lot of the people that are recovering from the drugs or the alcohol will drink coffee all day. And when I first got admitted into my most recent stay about a year ago, I drank coffee for the first morning just to kind of wake up. And so a lot of the people that recovering from drugs came over and were sitting around me and there were like, Oh man, you know, I'm recovering from this or that. And I was like, Oh, these people seem nice, but bear in mind. It was still sick at the time. So unfortunately with all the noise of people talking, and of course the voices that were going on in my head, I got very frustrated and I just kinda like, I got irritated and I was like, you know, I need everyone to be quiet cause I can't keep all the voices from that are real. And that aren't real. I can't really tell which ones or which at this point and all the people around me at that point realized, Oh, he's one of the guys that are here for a mental issue. And they were really quick, all scared, you know, they were like, okay, let's kind of shift to the other side. It's it it's chaotic. They have evolved over time. When I was first sick, they would try to be people. I know like they would imitate my wife, my family members and stuff like that. They would like to play games. They would trick me to go into other rooms, mock me and make fun of me since then. It's changed now to where I'm, it's a lot more chaotic when I hear the voices. They it's a lot of them. I mean, when it happens, it's just, it feels like there's like 20, 30 people all trying to have a conversation with you and they're all fighting with each other off. The, the voices are pretty easy for me. I just see it as an issue with a brain. I mean, obviously something's went wrong. I, I obviously don't know to, to what extent, but I think it's a thing it's definitely a brain issue. The voices for me are a lot more manageable than the delusions of the voices I've now learned. You know, if, if I start hearing them, I can listen to loud music that helps a lot to kind of drone them out. And just anything that I can to keep my mind focused, you know, I might play a video game. It helps me to really just zone in on what I need to do. And so I'm not so focused on what they're saying. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Oh yeah. I don't think I have, So I think that, I think there's a couple of movies that, that do a good job on it. A, a beautiful mind is one that comes to me that that was a movie. That to me was a really relatable early on in my sickness. Cause it really shows the guy that, you know, this is a person that he went to college. He is like a top of mind, you know, just some guy who you see as the world ahead of him. And then he's just hit with the illness. It, you know, causes his life to go in shambles. But in the end he is able to over time, overcome it and kind of get it a maintained, you know? And I, and I think that's a, something that shouldn't be shown to. A lot of people that have to be on this. A lot of people are scared. They don't know what to do. They think that it's the end, you know, they think there's no way that they'll ever be able to climb out of it. And I mean, don't get me wrong. You know, you're always going to have rough patches, but I think those kinds of movies are motivated. I don't think I have. I don't believe I have. I know like ones that I've seen that were interesting, obviously the more, the more famous than the new joker movie was one that I thought kind of pointed it out. And that's obviously on the opposite spectrum. I mean, when you see in that movie, a, this is a person who has lost his foundation, you know, he, he doesn't have the help, you know, when you see these people's that in the news do lose their mind and they unfortunately cause some sort of seen or heard themselves or others, it, it shows you that without that support, without people there to really help, you know, it can get scary, you know, and it can get dangerous. And, and I think that was a good mood to show people as well, that, you know, you, everyone needs someone to lean on. And I, and I think a that's a good example of why that's necessary. Absolutely. I when I went and saw it in theaters, I did not know it was going to be a movie that was folk focused around that kind of mental illness. I wish I would've known it cause you know, it, it was kind of tough to watch a, to C I try to look on the positive side of the illness and to see the dark side is pure as it was in that movie was, you know, definitely a shock to the system. But I think it is a site that in a way does need to be seen so that people can understand that, you know, people need help. And if you don't give them that help, if you, if you don't assist people, this is unfortunately the kind of things that can happen. So when I first got sick early on, I was given a large amounts of a, I think it was called US Seroquel. And it just, it unfortunately made me kind of like a zombie. I mean, I really was not able to, to function. I was, I was just so slow on doing, talking and daily task and, and things like that. And eventually I came off of that medication and got put on a different one and then a different one and then a different one, you know, it just, we cycled through it. Each one kind of had a different side effects that were hard to deal with and now don't get me wrong for some people, the medicine works great. And I am absolutely glad for that. For me, unfortunately, the medicine just didn't, it would numb the effects, but unfortunately we would also bring some sort of other drastic side effect with it. Now in days I, I take a CBD oil and that helps out tremendously with the deal, Well, I, I do not take any anti-psychotics I have not for probably a year and a half now, now don't get me wrong. I'm not saying everyone should not take medicine. Definitely medicine is helpful for certain people. It's just, for me, I went through so much of the medicine and it just never really, it never really helped the way I wanted it to, for me personally. So, you know, I tried the CBD oil to see if it would help now don't get me wrong. I still get sick. I still have my episodes, but it calms me down enough to really be able to kind of focus, to deal with the symptoms at hand. Yes. Yes. I can't do. 'em like actual marijuana. So, you know, like smoking marijuana or anything like that, the THC factor of it causes my psychosis to go through the roof and causes way more problems than good. The CBD. It just, it relaxes you is that that's the way of putting it. It doesn't make you high in any way, shape or form, but it just, it calms you down and makes the world kind of a little bit more bearable. Well, I mean, it's a big portion of, it was just the foundation. You know, I, my, my family really knows my illness. They help me when I do get sick, you know what I mean? They know what to do to, to help deal with it. But yeah, any, any time you want to do this again, or, you know, any of that, okay. Many people have joined, but that will be a place that people can discuss the episode's. Okay. So hopefully you build an audience, give it to people and then we'll discuss the plant's raise in each state. That is, that's kind of why I'm looking for it would be fantastic. That would be <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.I am doing great. Thanks for having me. So it all began, I think really with smoking a lot of weed, we'd just started when I was 16, 17, and then the, so I began to hear voices around the time I was a 17, 18. I know it was just too female voices that would talk to me. And they'd sort of common on my actions and se I thought that had control of the, you know, the recommended videos on YouTube. And so when I read them, you seem like it was a secret messages. They would place me. And I had read through them and I was reading sort of story that they've made. But anyways, so it developed from there you got worse and worse until I was trying to, I thought it was the neighbors cause I had two young female neighbors. And so I tried to sort of talk to them and communicate with them. And it ended up with a beginning section two, which is a involuntary admit it to the hospital. So I was taken to the hospital in July 28, 2019, and I was there for three months and, and initially I was diagnosed with post is, Oh, sorry, go ahead. Well, I think the hospital is very restrictive. I think the main qualm are happy with it is that they don't allow you to smoke cigarettes, which leads to sort of like a underground everyone's smuggling cigarettes and paying an extortion of prices for them. But in terms of the day-to-day, this stuff is great. And there's quite a lot of little bitty, so you're allowed to have your phone's and stuff, which I think is great. I think overall it was a needed experience. It wasn't a very pleasurable, but it was needed. Did they give you You know what? I think my sanity only deteriorated the longer I was in it. So other patients sort of fed my delusions and I sort of started to think that it was like a secret recruitment camp for the telepathically Illuminati. So it wasn't actually great for my sanity. I think coming home did a lot more to help me get saying, okay, I'm 80 or 19 next week, but I'm 18 on the way. I'm going to be a student I've joined university. I'm starting in September. So I'm quite excited about that. To business and business management. Triggered it, it doesn't, it, it sort of triggered it Well with my friends, they just 90% THC So and benefit to you. Yeah. About 20 to 25% is crazy. Yeah. Well, I think initially sort of realized, Oh, okay. These weren't really my neighbors. You are just hearing voices. And I think the main mistake I made is on the advice or one of the other patients who said that the medication was poison. I allowed that to get into my head and I decided to put the medication under my tongue and spit it out, even though it was oral disbursable, but you still only gave a partial effect. And that I think lead to my deterioration. So I've started to develop a lot of delusions. So I was thinking that all the people in there had been given lines and they were all there for me. And it was like a big test. And I did things about kicking the door to the stalker, but because I thought that I had one of the guys asked me to retrieve him some property from him there. So I thought, you know what I need to do that. It's like a task for me. So I did a lot of, sort of out their things, but I didn't go into any fights. There were lots of fights going on. I think that's a big sort of a criticism of it is it's a bit like prison, you eat prison food, and there's a lot of fights going on. To go into your room and you have to ask the one of the nurses to unlock it and then like it again. So you can actually use, and then you can unlock it from the inside. But if you're close the door, it locks again. So they've got a sort of locking system with all the doors. You are able to come and get your privacy, but you have to ask a nurse which can be a process in of itself because you have to knock on the office store and wait for one of them to be available, which can take 20 minutes, half an hour, just to do simple things, like go into your room. So it is a really sort of, it, it makes you the patient, you have to be patient to get the buy in the, and obviously that aggravates a lot of patients. So they would be waiting for 20 minutes and then that gets really angry and rode up and they are shouting and screaming on a fight. Everyone's so yeah, I think some of the designs of the would lead to issues. Yeah. So initially it was psychosis, but after I had a second episode and it was a change to schizophrenia. So at the moment I still hear it. I still have delusions. Like when I'm going to go out on a walk, I've got a dog when I'm walking the dog. And I think that people are out to attack me and that cause it, it stems from real life issues that I've had. I've been stopped. I've been, I've had money, but in my head, so I've, I've gone through a lot of traumatic experiences and that is genuine that the police came to my house to warm me and my family about it. That's not just a delusion, but I've had a lot of real life stress, which I think contributes to it as well. And like the tipping point into psychosis and a source of the psychosis manifests itself around that. So you have delusions that people are going to attack me because I've been working on people are just to attack me out of nowhere. Exactly. I also had delusions of grandeur thinking that I was going to be able to redact. I was going to join some secret Illuminati group that it was telepathic. And that, that would allow me to sort of run the world in a way that the ads on TV, where sort of way about me and my journey to join them, like other parts of the facets of their organization. So I was really out there, but I've, I've recovered off those with the help of the medication. I'm on the power of paradigm, an injection, which is, you know, a Depot they call him, which is once a month and really helps sort of deal with the symptoms and delusions, but it does have some side effects. So my hands getting sort of shakey and my arms get contorted awkward. And it, it gives you a, a terrible sort of a brain fog way. You think you can really think clearly, which is not preferable is not ideal, but it is preferable to having schizophrenia badly, I guess. Okay. All right. So with my friends, I put some crazy stuff on my Instagram story when I was in hospital. So I'm talking about the devil and how it was a Holocaust camp. And so a lot of people that it was sort of acquaintances with they've distanced themselves from me, but my close friends sort of just, they, they they've, there've been along with the journey. Well, I think for awhile, when I got out of the hospital, I was trying to get a job and I put on my CV that I had psychosis and I didn't get any interviews until I took that off my CV. So I think there is a lot of just in a discrimination against people with a psychosis and schizophrenia that they don't want to employ them because I see it as a risk. So as soon as I took that off of my CV, I've got a job working in the warehouse before that, and it was going nowhere. So I think there is a lot of sort of societal discrimination against, you know, especially in the working world, but like, yeah, especially in the working world, Okay. And eventually I would like to start my own business. I was a sort of involved with the smooth start up before that was doing a Bitcoin trading and that it was really successful. And I made a lot of money doing that. And it sort of given me a taste for what it's like, you know, I really love it. So I think one day I want to start my own business is after my business degree, Well, it can be hard. I think I did notice some challenges once I was working in the warehouse. So I got called crazy by a couple people. And like sometimes when I was working down the hall, cause there was a big sort of a building when I was walking around outside sort of feel like an impending doom sensation and get really worried, but it didn't impact me too much. I was able to go on with my job, but it is definitely a part of working with schizophrenia. And you do have to sort of teal with the, the, the symptoms while you work in, which can be an extra challenge, but it is definitely overcomeable if you put your mind to it. The only had one hallucination in my life where sort of, I was looking at my floor and I saw the spider come out of the floor and walk around for a while and then it sort of sunk back in to the floor, but I've only heard that one. So hopefully that doesn't get worse regarding that, but delusions, I mean, I think so, especially when I was in hospital, it was when I had the most delusions and I used to sort of thing that everyone, every other patient in there was completely sane and that they were in there to test me and challenged me. So I would try and sort of take, take the piss out of them or go along with their tests and thought if it gave me tasks to complete, Just to get out of hospital. It really, it didn't really, it didn't leave me from the whole time I was in the hospital. I think, you know, only left me once I was out of hospital and I started to sort of assess reality a bit more like, okay. And nothing has happened to happen and joined a secret Illuminati. So maybe that wasn't true. That wasn't the case. It's quite a bad image. There's a sort of a image that people are, have a violin and they want to attack people that are you crazy and you have to stay away from them. But I think we are just normal people who have got some issues that you have to do with it. But I don't think, I know, I don't think that that is represented in media very well. Apart from, in some TV shows like a, there was one maniac that it is, is to be represented really well. And so I think there's a scene where he, it goes up to someone who's whose voices have said, this is you're going to be your leader or something to save the world. And then they go along with a delusion and then its, and then its sort of brought it back to reality. And I thought, I really related to that scene sort of exemplifies going through delusions and then coming back to reality. But other shows like shutter Island sort of have you seen that? I feel that as well, but yeah, I think it is a good film. Like it is an interesting film and it doesn't really represent schizophrenia sort of shows in as violent money. People who want to blow up cars and stuff and it just can't be reasonably. And I, Do you use it? It's a good film, but I don't. I think it does represent sort of schizophrenia as being violent because there's a lot of sort of, of violence that goes on. He's attacking people and ah, he's a close of a car and all that sort of a split point that the guy is like, you do it in my car and I'm really angry about that, but it is quite well. I would relate to that so much. I think I didn't even touch on that, but the media portrayal of schizophrenia is negative, very, very negative. And you do only hear about bad incidents like a one time and the police are talking to him about it. And it was sort of going on about how this guy who is on the road, killed this family and then got arrested for murder and then put it in an asylum. But there's like, you only hear the bad side, but I think at the same time, it is important to realize that there is sort of a very dark side of psychosis. If it all goes wrong and it can't be completely disruptive, but someone who is living with schizophrenia and dealing with the collusions and stuff, isn't the same as someone who is in complete mania and psychosis. And I think it's important to recognize the difference between that. I mean, I think in terms of coping strategies, reading is really useful. I've gotten to book so far. So if I'm hearing voices or if, if I had felt like a lot of control over my internal monologue, then reading a book helps sort of get control of back over it. I can sort of be, it helps to bring peace and it's a really good coping strategy. And I think listening to music as well, I just spend a lot of the pages relaxing, listening to music. I think that is a great coping strategy. So sort of a relaxing and allowing sort of a bit of a sanity to come back into the equation. Okay. I think the main thing is if, if you are a friend of someone with who's going through schizophrenia at the moment to just try your best to support them in any way you can. Cause it's is, it is hard losing friends when you go through schizophrenia and just being there to support them is better than just cutting them off. If you, if you care about them than do your best, even if they seem delusional or just go along with the delusions and talk to them and try and connect with them on an emotional level and talk about something saying that they enjoy maybe a TV show or something, because you can still, there's still a human. I think that's important to recognize. There is a song about it in my mind is playing tricks on me. I think that's a great thing that caught my eye. I'll play royalty free music, but I'll probably pay some just to make it stop crying. But anyway, fantastic to speak with you. It will be a great pleasure. You know, your, your very candid, candid. I think I can sense that you're a break down, man. You know, you want, you want to say, you want to be as honest as possible, you know, talk about your experiences and you know, after the practice to speak, you know, close. Yeah. It was great speaking to you. Great. All right.Hi, thank you for having me. I'm doing fine. I'm glad to be a part of your show. I really like your idea. Well, actually I think I inherited this condition from my mother. She was diagnosed in her twenties and I've been actually told, I acted, you know, weird way, even as a baby, you know, I wouldn't wouldn't laugh or cry. I would just stare at one spot. So I also exhibited strange behavior growing up as a, in my elementary school, in high school. And, but I think my symptoms skyrocketed in my late teens when I was like 17 or 18 years old, but I never taught that I had schizophrenia. I, I just thought I was, I was a normal, I was living a normal life. I never wanted to be like my mother. I thought I was, I was a bad. So I actually signed up for uni. I enrolled in a uni and I got kicked out because of my strange behavior. I made an incident once and I got kicked out, but later I started in another union. I actually managed to finish it somehow. And then I was unemployed for a few years, and then I finally managed to find a job, but I was also kicked out because also I exhibited strange behavior and I kinda harassed my colleague. And so I got fired, which led to my first suicide attempt. And then I was admitted to the hospital and then I went to a psychiatrist and then I was diagnosed in 2009. Well, how should I put it? I'm pretty fine. I, I accepted it. I accepted my destiny and I'm trying to, to live a normal life as much as I can, even though it's not, not, I'm not doing greatly at the moment, you know, just having these a strange ideas and so forth. And it's hard to, to, to go to a psychiatrist because of the Coronas situation. Yes. Well, yeah, I had like everyone else, I had a lease delusions and stuff like that. The yearly earliest one I can remember is that, like I had a, some kind of a computer in my brain that it was doing calculations and telling me stuff to do with it, or I don't know. I thought I was, I thought everybody was in love with me or everybody hated me or stuff like that. Just like the basics. Yeah, definitely. I mean, the, the, when you get older, you, you somehow learn how to recognize it and snap out of it. You know, like when I was younger, I, I, I would, my delusions will last for like years and now the last for like an hour or two, because I, I managed to snap out of it somehow, because I know that that I'm gonna get in trouble for thinking like that eventually. So you kind of learn how to a snip out of it. I guess you get older and wiser and have more experience with it. Well, it didn't feel like anything abnormal, you know, you just felt like I thought everybody had it. I thought everybody else taught like that, or everybody else had a computer in their brain or something like that. So it was just a normal part. Part of my, of my personality. I thought, I even thought I was, I was a smarter than everyone else. So it's not like the The stuff like that hurt me in any way, because I was totally obsessed by it. It's like, I never told her that it was an illness or something like that, Well, that was a really short treatment. It's not like I was treated for a mental illness. I was just treated because I, I overdosed on the medicine. So I was given I V and stuff like that. So I wasn't treated for schizophrenia. I was just given, how do you call it? Like a paper to, to go to a psychiatrist after that? So I went to a psychiatrist on my own because I knew there was something wrong with me. I just, I sit, sat down and, and I re-examined my life. And I realized that there was something wrong. And so I went to a psychiatrist and that was it. It was pretty bad. I didn't think she was really interested in hearing my problems or finding the solution. So they mostly work based on, based on a template. So it's like, Oh, okay. This and this here, try this medicine next. You know, I was just like a, just one of hundreds of people. So it's not like took her time to really listen and, and helped me. Yeah, definitely. I agree. But I don't hold grunge a grudge against them. It's like, they have a lot of work. They're overworked, underpaid. They, you know, they have hundreds of patients. It's a free healthcare. So it's like, like not like you're going to get to the best out of the best. If you want best, you probably have to pay for it. I, I know what you mean. Like I went with my mother and she had a, she had severe side effects from her medicine and they didn't care. They just said, well, what can you do and why? And I actually read it the side effects of the medicine. And so it's like, it can lead to death. So I personally started looking for another solution. So maybe another psychiatrist, maybe a different medicine, or maybe reducing the dosage and stuff like that. So you just have to have to accept that it's a free health care and you're not gonna get the best, best service. And you have to find solutions of your own sometimes. Yeah. Well, probably, you know, The, the Western society is definitely more advanced, especially compared to Europe and Eastern Europe. Like first of all, a, in my country, personally, mental health is a great taboo. So if you are a mentally ill, you are seen as a alien or a, I don't know, a monster or something like that. Not, not just schizophrenia, but generally. And schizophrenia is like the most, I don't most infamous disease ever in my country. They call it a cancer of the soul. So you can imagine what people think about. And, you know, the first of all, the great difference is in treatment. But the first thing that, that, that is kind of like the same in America in Europe is the detection of the stillness, the diagnosis. So there, there aren't any mechanisms of detection in a, in schools, in, you know, in hospitals, police department and so on. So it's hard to, to, to determine who is mentally ill from schizophrenia. For example, if, if a student is acting strangely in school, it's highly likely may, maybe he's who has schizophrenia, but nobody is going to like help him in any way. That's a, this is my personal experience. So, you know, I was always treated as a clown or a weirdo or a alien or something like that. So first of all, there isn't any mechanism of detection. It is the same problem in, in advanced societies, progressive societies and other ones, you know, but the second thing is actually the, the treatment treatment is much better in a Western world. I think the, there, the medicine are better. There are a lot of different medicines, but a psychiatrist. And there was a lot of, there is a lot of support, you know, from society like employment programs. There there's none of that in Bosnia, there is a disability, there isn't any disability in both. I mean, there is, but it's really hard to get a, and it's negligible. You get like, I don't know, $50 a month or a, a a hundred dollars a month, which is, which is nothing. And the only thing that helps in my society at least is the, the, the support of family, friends, people who are close to you. So th that's a little bit of a difference in Boston is that friends and family are more likely to support you. Everything else is a disaster, but I think globally, it's going to change, I think, is going to, going to get better because there, there are no new treatment options and people are talking more about it. And there are many, a scientific researchers and so on. That'll help. Yeah, Well, to be honest, maybe I'm, maybe I'm a little bit exaggerating as well, but you have to realize that, you know, my society, Boston is a society it's pretty conservative. You know, it's, it's a little bit, we could even call it the backwards. So when a person has like these, some strange views, strange ideas, they're better accepted in, in for example, in America, you know, it's a pretty progressive society. And when you have a little bit of America, what, excuse me. Yeah, I guess a European societies is generally a similar, all around compare to like America in Canada. There are a little bit more progressive. Well, I actually want to talk about my future. Well, right now it's like, I'm having this. I have this wish. So say actually I want to, my plans for the future is I want to have a more on my own apartment and just to be able to hold down a job. So I'm working on it, but I'm actually, I'm being, I'm a whole hell down by cognitive problems. So what I actually wanted to, to emphasize is the, the problem of, of, of, you know, cognitive problems in it's a phrenia, they tend to get worse as you, as you get older. And that's what I'm struggling with now. And, you know, I just, I'm too confused and forgetful and I, I find it hard to focus and stuff like that. So, so being able to help hold down a job is pretty much impossible, you know? So that's what I think that research is. Schizophrenia is going to, it's going to have to go in this direction to help many people struggling with this disease and a PR the problem is, is that the medicine doesn't tell what it, you know, medicine only helps with positive Simpson symptoms, hallucinations and stuff like that. So that's what I actually wanted to emphasize. W what I, what helps me is that I exercise and I eat healthy. And I think that's my advice for everyone else, struggling with this disease, it's imperative to exercise and eat healthy. That really helps with all of the symptoms, even with the side effects of schizophrenia. Like sometime you still get, get anxious or depressed or stuff like that. And it really helps exercising. You know what I think about it, it's like a, the main reason we are so ostracized by society, because society is so one dimensional, you know, a, the only thing that is respect is like the average Joe, you know, The the guy who has a good average job with two kids, wife, housing in the suburbs and everything that it's different than that is a way of abnormality. I think we, we have a person's with schizophrenia. I think we have some, some unusual gifts. I think the guy, the first guy for me Interview is Frank talked about it a little bit, that we have like maybe a gift to communicate with a spiritual world, something like that. There was a lot of talk about it. A lot of people talked about like Terence, McKenna, Alan Watts, and so on. So I think we should embrace our, you know, extent Tricity that the fact that two are, we are different. We have a different way of thinking, and I think that's a society should also accept us as different people. You know, I think we have some, some, some kind of maybe could help people in some way. And definitely, I think whenever I, I embraced my weirdness, my centricity, I was happy. And I would say I was even better accepted by people. And whenever I tried to be like an average, Joe, I just failed miserably. So I think that society shouldn't really be focused too much on treating schizophrenia and making us turning us into average. Joe's maybe just a little bit, you know, but I think it should also learn how to accept us, because I think we are unique in some way. Yeah, definitely. I think we have some, some sort of unique brains, you know, it it's, we understand reality and we observe reality from a, from a different perspective. I think that people should actually learn how to appreciate it. Sometimes we are not a hundred percent lunatics or something. Should I give you like a specific song or just a music genre? Well, yeah, you can, you can electronic music or a house, some kind of house at the end. Yeah. Something like a happy dance to, or something like that. Thank you for having me. I really liked your show and giving you a chance to express <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.You know, it's, it's, it's been a, it's been a year. I, I work over at one of the hospitals and it's been chaotic, but it's, it's it, I, I've been very fortunate in that the hospital has been really great about how they've been handling things and what's been going on. It's been, it's been a very stressful time for a lot of people. And I think that's just kind of exacerbate a lot of people's awareness of their health in general. So it's not just necessarily Covid because everyone's kind of like, okay, well, is this, this is this, that, and it's, you know, everyone's kind of high strong, okay. Yeah. There's, there's been, there's been a lot of people who've been taking it seriously. There's, there's a lot of people in my area who haven't been taking it as seriously as they probably should have been. But I, I think that's kind of ubiquitous throughout the world. Well, most of the world, it's just, it's unfortunate that the people who don't take it seriously tend to spread it to people who haven't, but there's, there are certain things that are unavoidable, but there are a lot of things that I think we could have as a country done better, but that's getting completely two rails on that. It's been very interesting. More so just with being schizophrenia, just in the sense that it, it seems like some of the things that have been happening, if he was part of like a grand delusion or something, I don't know, It's almost just kind of pretend like, Oh yeah, no, that didn't actually happen. That was some crap. Your mind made up that you're just living. Yeah. So I guess it, it probably started when I was like symptoms. I started probably when I was a younger kid. I remember like, like looking in the air and seeing things like hands in the air or something, or a knee, like feeling like if I weren't to do something, something bad or care about what happened, like stand in this circle over here, otherwise, you know, the house is going to collapse. You can't prevent the house from collapsing unless you stand in this imaginary circle that you've drawn for yourself. And I remember one time just staring at this toy had, and seeing just dance. But I think at that point I was kind of sleep deprived. I've never really been able to sleep well at night, but throughout high school, I think it just kind of got construed as depression. I wasn't really sad. I was just withdrawn. I didn't really like, I guess more negative symptom wise just didn't really have any motivation to do. Anything felt like distant from people to try to kind of lash out at like me, myself and my environment in a way that was kind of productive and more of a, kind of like a I'm here kind of thing. But got diagnosed with depression was put on a Prozac. And I think I tried a few other things that just didn't really agree with me. So it was better off the antidepressants and on which is probably a big red flag that it wasn't depression to begin with. I had a kind of a major psychotic break in college. Some roommates just kind of found me huddle up, just kind of mumbling to myself. I was just completely out of it. They took me to the hospital where they kept me for a few days. Cause they, they said I was suicide watch, but there's there's suicide wash. And then there's like going to harm yourself because you, you're not suicidal. You just have these weird ideations that like, I have to like cut up in my arms in order to find the implant or some crap that just spews out like that. Cause I get, I get a lot of like weird self surgery kind of things. I try to like open up my hands before I tried to, I, I thought doctors put an implant in my neck before I've tried to open my neck up and try to pull. It was more just like, I don't even know what got the ball rolling. I just know where it ended up at it's my brain tends to take things, just kind of like run with it and all these weird, crazy directions. So I, I remember after one of my breaks and I was hospitalized, I was convinced that one of the doctors had injected me with AIDS, which was just this bizarre, like out of nowhere, just like, Oh great. Now I'd like, I know he did that. Like I know that's what they're trying to do. They're trying to experiment on me kind of thing. I think I've been hospitalized five or six times, but it's over getting the diagnosis didn't really happen until I think I was 21 or 22 after a major break. And it's just in and out of different psychiatrists and therapists and kind of a collaboration of all of them. Here's some anti-psychotics Oh, they're working that schizophrenia kind of thing. But I let's see, you know, I think, I think everyone who has schizophrenia has like some kind of break or another, I had a therapist kind of put it as it there's tears. There are people who have one break from reality and that's probably all they're going to have. There are people who go intermittently in not a reality, which is kind of where I'm at. And there's some people who are just in a constant state of delusion, which is, you know, there, but for global coin kind of sentiment. Yeah, I was, I was in college kind of going through all this in my twenties. So from probably the years 17 to about 25, I was just kind of just in a really bad state. I was drinking heavily to compensate and trying different kinds of meds, but this was pre Obama. So I didn't have insurance for a period of time. So it was just kind of bouncing around and trying to find free samples or something that would work. So I was, I had, I have a very good support system, which has been very helpful, but I've been in and out of college past 15 years now trying to finish out my degree. I started out as a pre-med and then I switched to nursing and then biology and then just dropped out completely when my health became more of a issue. And it's kind of funny cause I pulled up my grades recently to reapply for col school. And you just see the cascading, like going downhill from the beginning. It's, it's, it's depressing in that regard, but it's, it's nice No, I, you know, I didn't, I, I, I, I wish I was originally planning on going to school for anesthesiology. And then I, when, when my mental health kind of affirm that, that wasn't going to be up a good road to go down, I switched to nursing necessary. And then as school just stopped becoming an option, I left a little bit and tried to go back and finish a degree out in biology because I was close to that and I fell in love with cave conservation. So I did a lot of spelunking down in Missouri and well, I say, well, one thing I was in cave, ecology courses that took us belonging. And then I ended up having to drop out completely. I moved, I would, this was all in Missouri. And I moved back to my home in 2010. I think it was and stayed with my parents a bit dry, spent the last, you know, 10 or 11 years getting kind of well, and I'm going back to school now to become a counselor just because, you know, it seems, seems appropriate to kind of share my experiences with in a way that might be beneficial to other people who've gone through similar things. You know, one, one fortunate thing about me is I've been very susceptible to medication there. I, I have psychotic breaks. There's a, I'm on a drug called Rexulti it's it's. I knew, well, it is brand new. I think it's a modified version. I heard somewhere it's a modified version of Abilify, but it seems much better than Abilify. It's worked out really well for me. My doctor originally wanted me on two milligrams, but I, you know, we, we worked it down to just one. I figured the less, the less I take, you know, the, not necessarily the better, but the less side effects I have to kind of deal with. And there hasn't been many side effects that just, it gets me a little bit lethargic, but a one milligram seems to be fine. It's it's not that I don't have psychotic breaks. It's more that they're just tolerable. They're it's, it's more just like a it's it's I can handle it for what the, the amount of meds I'm on, if that makes any, I mean, there's that, there's also just kind of weird beliefs. Everyone's the way that I can best describe it is it feels like my brain is going to calm compartmentalized. There's just, there's just different sections. Just kind of doing their own thing and they don't, they don't Quock cross their wires exactly right. As they should. I, I tend to mumble out to myself or talk to myself or not like, I think everyone does to a degree, but not just like unaware of what they're doing or just like in regards to something else. Sometimes I tend to forget where I'm at, but only for like a split second. And I have like a weird Twitch. I Twitch every now and again. And I can't tell if that's just from the medication or urges or the disease or something completely different, but I do get, you know, native symptoms. Occasionally I get more positive symptoms. I'll I don't necessarily see things, but I definitely hear things. Usually there are people outside of my walls talking about how they're coming in to arrest me or get me, or I hear a lot of piano music from the outside of the room or some kind of like quiet feeling that I need to do something in order to protect myself. From the metal community? Yeah, I, I, I was a very, very heavy smoker for a very long time and I've been very worried that I've, you know, caused more damage to myself than I think is showing. But so, you know, my blood pressure has been very high lately. You go to the doctor and some of them have assumed that it's, it's more just in my head. So it's like, well, no. So you have to kind of like really, really establish that where your grounds are. And on the other, on the flip side of that and not to just play devil's advocate, doctors and nurses, when a lot of people, when you deal with a lot of people who present symptoms of a certain thing and you see someone who's more stable presenting a similar symptom, it's easy to con you know, combine them into a single unit. It, I think a lot of people have to remember that their doctor isn't with them 24 seven. They don't really see all the things that they go through. So it it's, it's something that they have to kind of remind them as far as my peers go. I, you know, I, I grew up gay in the Midwest. It's one of those things. It's just like, I, I don't have it in me to care about what other people think of me anymore. It doesn't, it phases me in the extent that people vote and people tend to vote for things that aren't healthy. If they are not informed about it, there definitely needs to be a lot of reform with health insurance, with, you know, universal there to be universal health care, but that's getting off topic. There definitely needs to be something reformed with access to mental health. You know, if, if my psychiatrist were to leave me, it would probably be about five or six months before I get into an apartment with somebody new, just because it's, it they're booked. They, they, they can't take on any, a lot of places can't take on new clients and you have to kind of work around the fact that not every psychiatrist in the area is going to take your insurance. So it's, it's a, it's a give and take Yeah. And, and, and in that regard, I, I don't, I don't care if somebody has a negative connotation about me. I'll say I don't, I don't care if anybody knows, if I'm schizophrenic, I care more people find out if I'm schizophrenic in their regard that like it, I, it, that's out of my control. You know, I, I, I, I, if, if somebody knows I'm schizophrenia through me and that's fine, you know, they, they either take that or they leave it or they get pissed off about it. If they don't, if somebody finds out, then I, you know, I have no really say in how their brain processes that, or if they see me in a negative light, and that really only affects me if there was somebody like my boss or, you know, somebody who has a say in my livelihood, which It's akin to somebody saying, Oh, that person has diabetes. What, you know. Yeah, exactly. It's just, it's, it's, it's a weird thing to, but I, a lot of people just don't know about it. And I think that's more, that's more of an issue. It's, it's more of like a portrayal in the media. You see, you see people in their, like a padlock room or something. There, there are, there are people out there who have, who have the condition much worse than I have. I feel like I'm functioning for everything considered, but it doesn't necessarily mean that, you know, the vast majority are need round the clock care, but it doesn't take away from the fact that they do either. It just, it's just part of life. And then just dealing with the shit. I think you're, you're Yeah. It's, it's, it's more like, I, it is what it is in the regard that I don't have. I know what I do and don't have control over and I accept that, but it's, it's also more just, I, I, I don't have any say in how a person reacts to something, or if they're willing to put time into listening to my side of things. I can't, I can't force that on people. And if you know the idea that we've all had a life, we all have gone through things. If, if you are my age, you've had the exact same access to all the information I have. And you still choose to believe certain things. Even after hearing my side of it, then, you know, good luck living your life like that. That's RDA It's, it's not, I, the, like I said, the only, the only way that it affects me is if there's voting on issues that would lessen certain burdens or create more, depending on the sway of the outcome or whatever, Yes and no. It, like I said, it's very, it's not necessarily that the job itself is hard or stressful. It's more just, I work with a lot of people who are under a lot of stress and pressure, and they, I don't know if anybody has worked in healthcare, but a lot of people have a bit of an attitude sometimes. Yeah. It's and it's, it's fine. I get it. I get it. But, you know, I work in a, in an area where you, you basically have to either, either tell somebody really good news or constantly tell people bad news. So it's, it's a fun way to, I guess I shouldn't say fun it's it can be vexing to have difficult conversations all day clinical and my what? Cynical. Cynical. Oh yeah. Sorry. No, I, I work. I just, I process specimens. So it's usually if I make a call it's because we can't run a test. It is. And it's, it's, it feels like it's finally starting to wind down, which has been a very big relief, but, you know, let's say there's always going to be good and bad days, but my, my work has been very, it's been nice to be able to get out of the house. It's also, it's, it's nice to work at a place that takes Covid seriously. And I feel like does a lot of good work in the community with it. And it's, it's also nice in the regard that I, you know, I was able to get the vaccine, which has been helpful in, in my stress levels, at least a little bit. So it's, it's, it's good in that regard. It, it almost feels, I don't know. Everything just, it just felt so surreal this past year and a half that it's I guess a year that it's just, just, yeah. I see a therapist. I see him. I saw him more regularly than I do now. It's he, he's a bit older. So we've been doing it on a zoom, but it, it, it doesn't, it doesn't bring the same for me. So it's hard to, it's hard to keep scheduling. I get on it, but it, you know, it, I understand it. Other than that, I, I try to eat well. I try to try to work out. I, I feel, I, honest to God, I feel like working on eating well has helped my mental health more than maybe even the meds, but when not, not by, not by a long shopping, but definitely, definitely more so than I thought it wouldn't initially, like I said, I have my blood pressure reached a really high level back in 2017, right after I got married. So I saying that a lot, it's kind of funny. But after that, I, I kind of took my health more seriously and started. I quit smoking, quit drinking, and started eating better and started going to the gym more. But this past year, not being able to go to the gym has been kind of difficult. But one of the, since I was taking classes at a local university, I've been able to use their pool, which I, I didn't realize how much I miss swimming until I get back in it. And I also didn't realize how poorly coordinated I am until I got back in the water. They're taking a year off, but nice. Yeah. I w I would say that for me, I've been very, very fortunate. I, I recognize that it's, it's, it's diff it for me. It's, it's probably more different from somebody else. Who's had issues with insurance. I will say the most evil thing in America right now is the healthcare system in, in that there was a period of time when I was working in, this is just a rather an adult story, but I think it's not necessarily unique. There was a time I was working at a different place and the insurance, I had insurance, I was paying a lot of money for the top tier of it. Each month. They, they would only pay for my meds. If my doctor ordered some random pharmacy out in the middle of Ohio or something, it always arrived about two to three weeks late. And it was, it was the shot. So it, the way that the shot works at stacks off on itself. So there was about two or three years where I just needlessly was going out of my gourd. I was getting all the bad side effects of the meds, and then I was gaining weight, but it was just completely out of control because so staggered wrong. And it, it just, it goes to show just how bad everything is in that regard. Even my meds now, like they, they cost an arm and a leg, but you have this magic receipt and suddenly they're like $5. It doesn't make any sense. It's just, it's, it's completely asinine. But there, there is something to be said about people in poverty or in even like middle class anymore, who just needlessly suffer because they can't have access. They don't have access to meds. It's insane. And not to make a punter, but it's mind-boggling, but yeah, not to, not to, to completely derail theirs. That was just a little thing I just kinda wanted to. No, I haven't. But I mean, that would make sense. There's a lot of the vessels in your nasal cavity, you will get hit fast with whatever you're putting in there. Yeah. You would absorb it straight through your vessels. In terms of speed. Yeah. There's a, the, one of the issues with a lot of the anti-psychotics is just that it needs to build up in your system and the longer it takes to put them just in the more likely you are to build a tolerance to it. So it's, it's, that would be, that would be, that would help circumvent a lot of issues with that. I think I, I think it's, it's probably gonna seem, I don't know. It seems not that it seems weird, but it seems strange to me, for some reason, it just doesn't seem like it's something that I would ever think that would be a possibility I'm going to take my meds just nasal spray. You know, I I've been on a big sixties and seventies kick the past couple of weeks, but I heard after Def pump split up, I've been on a big, big Def pump check and, and you know, anything electronic right now just is one of those feelings of just like, Oh God, I'm, that was 30 years ago. They joined together and I'm old, but it's it's, it was sad still at the same time, Yeah. Yeah. I saw that too. Is I get it, like, if I were in their shoes, I'd want to retire too, but it's very <inaudible> yeah. Yeah. <inaudible> <inaudible>.Thank you. Hi, I'm doing well. How are you doing? Oh yeah, Oh, sure. Yeah. My symptoms started off as when I was a kid, actually I used to see things more visually hallucinations and auditory when I was a kid, but I, I used to see really horrific things I thought were ghosts, maybe, you know, and it started off when I was about maybe seven or eight years old and I didn't know what to think of it. And I didn't really talk about it that much because I didn't know what was going on. And then as I got older, hurricane Katrina hit new Orleans and I was living here at the time. You know, when it hit, I was here and I was impacted. I ended up evacuating and getting out and everything, but I got stuck in a part that flooded and it wasn't as bad as it could have been, but that kind of added some post-traumatic stress. And after that event, the hallucinations and the voices and everything were like intensified at times thousand. Oh yeah. Wow. Creepy things, very things. I told him what I saw and I don't really know if like how, like, what their take on it was. I think maybe they thought I was like having like a bad dream or something, or maybe it was just because I watched a lot of scary movies. I'm not sure, but a lot of, you know, they, they didn't really know how to take it. I don't. Well, because as I got into my twenties, I went to a doctor and I told him how I was seeing and hearing things. And I got put on Abilify. And when I'm on my medication, it's stops like breathing pretty much. But when I take it, sometimes it's so happened. So I kind of wonder about that, you know? And I'm a paranoid schizophrenic. So I get really, I get these delusions of people trying to kill me all the time. And I get paranoid about a lot of things. Like I'm afraid of the dark. I'm afraid of not really necessarily the dark, I'm afraid of what could be in the dark. When I wake up in the middle of the night, throughout the night, I actually hear a whole bunch of voices and I can't make out male or female, but it's like a, like a whirlwind of voices. And sometimes it's really loud and sometimes it's just kinda normal volume, like I'm talking now, but it's just, it's intense sometimes. And I just want it to go away. Cause I'm trying to sleep. No, not really much It is. Yeah. It's like, you don't want to frighten people and you don't want them to see you in a different light, but at the same time, it's something that, you know, you deal with and you deal with like 24 hours a day, seven days a week, it's stuck. So we should, Yeah. I believe that like the stigma of schizophrenia though, is like everybody, especially in movies, the way they portray, you know, every serial killers and schizophrenia, his dog is talking to him, telling him to murder people. You know what I mean? So automatically people who are schizophrenia or serial killers, all of us are, and we're evil and we're bad people. And it's like But I'm not even sure. Yeah. Yeah. And then you've got the people who were undiagnosed, you know, Oh yes. All the time. Actually. Almost every day. It feels like, well, I'm a claustrophobic person too, and it feels like I'm in a, like I'm in a room and the walls are closing in on and I'm starting to not be able to breathe. And then like, I actually start to sweat and I feel like I could pass out and you know, just faint and my heart starts racing. Cause it, it becomes completely physical at that point. You know, it's very scary. It's horrifying. I've actually gone into my room before and like barricaded myself in my room by putting my dresser in front of my door. Cause my door doesn't lock because I was just so terrified. I was just my delusions and I laid in bed and I was just like, you know, praying. I was like, God, help me, God help me, God help me. And like just asking for any type of help, really to relieve what was going on. And then eventually it passes, but it's at the time it's so real. And it's so vivid. I don't know how to handle it most of the time. Not at all actually. No. I believe in God, but I was raised a Pentecostal and I got out of the church and you know, I, I still, I guess I believe in God, but I'm not a very spiritual person, but when things get really bad for me, I'm one of those types of people who start asking God for help. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm hoping he's real. And that he's hearing me because usually whenever I do that, it kind of simmers down a little bit and it kind of is ease. And I don't know if it's just because I'm in a way sort of praying and talking to God or if it just kind of happens that way, you know, I can't really tell most of the time. I actually don't work. I haven't worked in about 20 years. Well, I love that question that you asked me that I'm actually going through that right now with a social security, trying to get my disability. I got a letter in the mail saying that I'm eligible and I'm just waiting on more paperwork. So it's going to go through for me after 20 something years. So I'm like, okay, I actually didn't tell any of my friends. I didn't tell really anybody except for, you know, my family, because I was afraid of how people would react, but you know, being well, they did. And I ended up losing all of my friends because of it. Yeah. I have no friends now really, Yeah. So, Yeah. I do. Like I kind of, I kind of show people what they want to see basically, you know, Oh, they were very supportive. They're very, very supportive. My mom, she's great. You know, I could talk to her about my episodes and stuff and what I see and everything now. And you know, my sister's been a big help, you know, they're really understanding. So that, that helps out a lot. Yeah. And I live, yeah. I live at home with my family because back in 2017, I was actually married for eight years to my husband and my husband. Yeah. He passed away in 2017 and I kind of lost my mind a little bit more. So I moved back with my family. Drug overdose. Okay. Yeah. I wish I knew. I really do because my family, it runs in my family on my mom's side. Apparently my grandfather had it, my mom's dad, his grandfather had it and it's like, I, I, it seems to have passed down, but at the same time, I question, I don't really, I don't, I'm not sure if I believe in ghosts and stuff like that, but once it comes, it always comes back to that for me, because there are certain things that happen and then I can see them here that maybe my mom or my sister will see your experience. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. And that kind of creeps me out on an even bigger level. Well, I feel like maybe like we were as schizophrenia chosen to see and hear things that we do seek in here, but I was going to think something like that, but yeah, It's hard to maintain relationships. Definitely big time too, with this, like it's so tough. Yeah. It is. It's really hard Only by friends. I used to have, Yeah. Like I think that they became like to the point to where they felt like I was being well, like we say, here in America, I was being too much because you know, they would tell me to talk to them about it and I would talk to them about it. And then they would go behind my back and talk to each other about me, you know, calling me a freak and a weirdo and stuff like that. And now I have something seriously wrong with me and I have issues and stuff like that. And they got back to me and I was just like, okay, that's not a friend, a friend doesn't do that. Like how they interpret it? Oh, I think that they would really be freaked out and probably like kicked me out of a taxi. No, it's definitely not. Yeah. My husband, when he, when he was alive, you know, I used to talk to him about my hallucinations and stuff like that. And he never wanted to hear it because it really did freak him out. And I understand that because it's really, really kind of scary stuff sometimes, you know? And I don't like, I don't, Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead. So yeah, Yup. And one thing that I've seen a lot recently is I've been seeing this since 2007. It's always, it looks like a woman and she stands in the corner of any room that I'm in facing the wall. And she's covered in like this gray hood with like this weird old dress and she's covered in vines and leaves. And she just stands there. Like a piece of furniture, never talks, never turns around, but I've been seeing her since 2007. And she's just like there all the time. That's pretty terrifying, man. Yeah. I think it's a, which personally I really do. Yeah. Most, most I've heard was people who are in adult, like me usually audio hallucinations more than anything. Oh yeah. I smoke way too much. Yeah. I would just like to say that people who live with schizophrenia, I think are the most condemned people in the world. Sometimes we have a huge stigma over us because of our diagnosis. And it's not fair for us to live with that and not be able to talk about it to people. And, you know, generally, because the way we feel about it and everything it's feels like it closes us off, it isolates us and it makes it worse in my opinion, you know? So I just think that the stigma of it really needs to just kind of, we need to try to fight that stigma and show people that we're not all these serial killer monster movies, you know, movie monsters and stuff like that. You know, we're normal people too. We just have happened to have those. No, my message is if you see a skinny frantic person, give him a hug. Oh yeah. I love, well, I love kind of like that screaming metal music. There's this artist named poppy that I like, I don't know if you've heard. Yeah, it was <inaudible>. Thank you for interviewing me. <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.I'm doing great. How about yourself? It's it's Okay mostly everybody wears masks. Yeah. That's the only thing that I'm worried about to is the second spike, you know? Okay. So about two years ago when I was 26 years old, I started having, well, I guess we call it an enlightenment. Like I was sitting at work and I was just start thinking about the most random things in my mind would present to me these like huge lodge, like leaps of M like beyond logic, just essentially it came out to be that, like I had come to the conclusion that I was God and that yeah. And that like the whole universe was basically revolving around me. That's where the solipsism began. Or then after that, about a couple of weeks later, I was a working and I turned around and I saw my coworker, literally just teleport right in front of me. He moved from one location to another, without any time Yeah without any time in between. And so I, I fault part of the enlightenment thing was that I thought I had figured out that the universe was a simulation and that there were multiple parallel dimensions and stuff like that. And yeah. So my whole thing was that he must've like unlocked something within a matrix. And my, my other thing was that everybody could tell apart, like if I could see my coworker teleport, then I could teleport. That's the, that's what set off a bunch of delusions, Yeah. I thought about it extensively. Like I came to the conclusion that I must've just hallucinated. 'cause like as cool as it is. Its impossible to teleport. But so from then on, I didn't have much in the way of voices, not until about a year ago. I'm just like a few things. One, a, everything felt like a story like your whole entire life. He just felt like one big ass, like storybook a, there was like four or shadowing. There is climaxes. It was crazy. Like there amount of continuity that they're would be between the multiple days and like my delusions and how the continuity between like what I thought my roommates were saying when they actually weren't. Cause one of the big things was that my roommates were commenting on my thoughts or they would comment on, on like the general story, quote unquote, that was going on at the time. He was really weird. Yeah. One of the weird things to me was unbidden images. I would just get images of and I had an app, like, you know how Mike, you can usually recall image in your brain and it will just like come to you, but you know that you did it. So if there was no worry, it, it would just happened to me. I would just be sitting there and I'd all of a sudden I get an image of something. And usually it's about a, like a white box or something like that. Yeah. And when you were about to fall asleep, Yeah. Mine are usually at night just before falling asleep. I would like hear a voice or something like that. That's lately. So back to the story I, I, it took about, I don't know, I would say about a year of me just going through life, thinking that I was part of like a space, like I was able to travel between parallel dimensions because like of the stuff that I had been through, I remember my coworker said to me one night, Oh, you're not supposed to talk about it. So I had assumed that it was like a Rite of passage kind of thing that everybody went through going through. And it turns out that I was, he would either was talking about something else or a hallucinated. Fine. I find that a lot of the time, if it's integrate with like actual, like he would say that most of the time I probably hallucinated. Okay. Yes. That's exactly it. Yeah. That's exactly what it is. The leaps of logic that your brain. Yeah. So about a year ago is when I started getting voices. They, it wasn't bad at first it was just very perplexing. Like it would say wrong. Well, I would be in the middle of doing something and a, I would be thinking about it. And all of a sudden I hear it's like somebody whispering my ear wrong or something like that. And then it became, I call it a, it, it was like Highlander. There could be the only one I was like, yeah, for some reason that was like, it was, it became an obsession for me. I like started falling into this weird little hole I made for myself where I was like, thinking about it. But basically it's magical thoughts, like your thoughts going to have impact on the world, around you or whatnot. And so like, I came up with this entire system of anti-hacking because like I said, in my mind it was mind hackers. That's why I was experiencing. Okay. Yeah. I thought there were a space-time police to it. It was nuts. Space-time lard. So I thought that was a thing just cause of the sacredness of it kind of deal. It just, it made the most logical sense in my mind. And yeah. So after I started getting voices, it wasn't too bad, but I wasn't being medicated. After a while I started getting disorganized thinking and eventually got to be word salad. I would, I would just be trying to go to sleep. And all of a sudden, my brain's like throwing a bunch of words at me that have no logical sense. Like you, I couldn't decipher it. Even if I wanted to. And after that I was like, okay, this is enough. I got to go talk to my psychiatrist. Cause at that time I was seeing the psychiatrist. I had been told her, I was just seeing her for ADHD. And then I went ahead and told her and she, she asked me like a series of questions. It came down to the reason why she gave me a schizophrenia diagnosis. The diagnosis was because of my, the thought broadcasting. Yeah. Like, and it was pretty bad too, because like, not only would I have thought broadcasting, but people would actually like turn to me and like comments on the thought that I had like yet they would move your mouth and everything. It was, it was nuts. Like I could, I didn't know that the brain could do that. Yeah. Obviously when it, when it's happening to you, you have no other explanation other than they can read my thoughts and they are able to hear what I'm thinking, Well, I think it has something to do with the subconscious. The subconscious is a really powerful thing. That's my idea. Because like, I've also had dreams of the future and I was listening to your last podcast and you guys talk about that a little bit, but in my case, I remember I had a dream, like a hypnogogic at the illusion of me being, not an airplane at the time, I was like convinced that there was space, time police. Right. So I was spending all of my time to try to interrupt time, you know, being super random, like not thinking about what I was going to do before I did it. So that way it was it like in fact. Yeah. Well, it's funny that you mentioned training because I hallucinated what, like I worked in the kitchen. Right. And so our tickets will come up and I hallucinated one of the tickets in training mode done or something like that. And yeah, that was the very beginning of my psychotic break and literally said training mode, if it definitely felt like that, though, it was, it was wild. But yeah, the dreams about the future, like I had a dream and I did my best to try to interrupt time, but I ended up in the same exact spot with him, the same exact circumstances. Anyway. And then I remember thinking, Oh, I had this dream last night and the guy who I was supposed to sit next to turn around. And he said, that's The truth right there. It was the freakiest thing, man. Yeah. So I understand what you mean. So my mom at the time was also going through schizophrenia. Yeah. She was diagnosed not too long after I was, she was way worse than I was though. She was kind of tonic. She wouldn't respond to like me trying to talk to her. She went, she was just like have conversations with people that weren't there. She like was losing weight, becoming ultra skinny. And then finally we were able to get her on Abilify and that helped her. And that also helped me out to, I was prescribed like Abilify 30 milligrams. And at first I got the <inaudible>. If you haven't heard of propranolol, that stuff is really good. It's like a better Yeah propranolol. Yeah. Yeah, it's a beta blocker. It helps with the restlessness though. Okay. Well, so my mom, she committed suicide about a month ago actually. And I think it was because of the Abilify She Yeah. She hung herself, actually. Jesus. Yeah. I know it's been rough dealing with that and like figuring out where everything's supposed to go and like, they don't make dining easy that's for sure. But I think it was because of the Abilify. She, she liked the biggest thing I noticed is that it's really hard to feel any kind of emotion, whether it be joy or sadness or anything like that. And I think she just either couldn't live with that anymore. 'cause I told her that would probably be, have to be on medication for the rest of our lives. And, and I don't know what to do. Well, it's weird. The Abilify, it kinda makes it so like, I'll be sad, but I can't cry. Mmm. It's pretty awful. I, I really hate that about the medication. Other than that, its, it feels like she went on vacation for a little while and I'll see her again. But I think that's just the denial stage. It, it hurts a lot, but yeah, Yeah. I actually, I should look into that. Like I did, I lost my father and my brother about five years ago. So yeah. It's like when I lost them, is it the amount of crying that I did was way more than in a matter of crying I've am now. And I, I swear, I think it's just the Abilify because it, it really does put a damper on your emotions. I think so too. I honestly do. Pretty well, I have a job working at 20 hours a week, Amazon doing warehouse stuff. It's pretty all right. I've noticed that my energy levels have definitely gone down mostly because I'm also ADHD. So without my ADHD medication, it's hard for me to like keep my life together. I'm going to have to talk to my doctor and see if I can be prescribed like a concern or something. Cause it, it, it, it gets really bad. I procrastinate too much from my own. Yeah. I, I kind of had to become an expert in schizophrenia, psychiatric medication. I did a lot of studying of a Zen, a little bit of Buddhism, but mostly Zen Zen helped me out, like a lot of trying to get rid of the, like the finding of the little meaning and the most random things, which was my problem. Being able to be like, okay, everything's just empty and devoid of meaning, devoid of like any characteristic helped me out a ton. But so studying Zen helped me a bunch. I think it would help a lot of other people to just like you, you don't have to like subscribe to Buddhism as a whole, but Zen itself has like a huge boon. For me. But it helps me deal with intrusive thoughts. I, we get that a lot. Yeah. They are. And like, due to the fact that I was also thinking of that broadcasting, like my thoughts would just Come in the wildest outlandish things I can ever think of. And it would just sit on my head and I would look at it in my own mind. I'd be like, Oh, well, I created that. So like learning how to deal with intrusive thoughts, which also did go away when the Abilify, Oh, by the way, I'm learning how to deal with that. You were really like, it brought me towards Zen and looking at the Zen scriptures and the Cohens and whatnot. Yeah. For the most part, I see it. I still have the, a, the hypnagogic allusions and it only happens that night. It drives me nuts. Cause like right now I'm actually in between prescriptions. I ended up procrastinating calling my doctor. So I haven't taken it in the past like six days or something like that. And it hasn't been terrible. Like I've been just doing just fine. Like I think the ultimate You know, I've been actually taking them pretty religiously Yeah and making sure that I would take them every day, even if I don't feel like it, that I needed or anything like that. Cause just because of what I've read in how like dopamine, it interacts with your brain and how like stopping a medication like that, could it potentially lead to another psychotic break, which by the way, like how, how was your cognitive level after you had your psychotic break? So yeah. I initially did, like I would say I started noticing a decreased cognitive level about a year after my psychotic break, but first psychotic break. Cause I, who knows how many psychotic breaks I've had, I fake, I'm guessing around like three of them in that two year period. But yeah, initially, like I, I forgot how to like the definitions of words my memory started. Like if my memory is still is very crap. And I think that that has something to do with the medications and then the, yeah, it like, it hasn't prevented me from getting any jobs per se, but it has gotten me fired from jobs nicotine. Yes. Yeah. Actually I heard that a nicotine is an anti-psychotic as well. Yeah. I smoked since I was 18 and, and it switched over to vaping like in 2015, but yeah, it like, that's another thing that I didn't like about the Abilify is that whenever I would smoke, I would never feel like satisfied after smoking or eating. Or I gained a lot of weight when, when I was taking a bill of five, I managed to drop a lot of it too with Kito. That helped a lot. Not, well, I haven't really told anyone other than my immediate family and my immediate family. They're very supportive and caring. I all I've heard was like a little bit of like discrimination, I guess a from my uncle, but that's about it and it wasn't even that bad. It was more like a, they were empathetic towards my, towards what I'm going through. Well, I know I'm not really a super social person. A and then secondly, yeah, it doesn't have a pretty big stigma attached to it. Cool. So he was like, fuck, you brought him up. He was quite a lot of joy. Thank you so much. You have a pool <inaudible> <inaudible>.Thank you very much. Duncan I'm doing all right today. It's been a normal day, a normal Sunday so far, so everything is quite good. Thank you so much. I am affected, yes. My, my workplace did do a few cut-backs and everything. And even with, with, with my salary salary wise, my salary got cut. So it's, it's kind of hard paying my debt and And in all of those things. So, but, but for the, everything is fine. Yeah, my story actually starts way back in, in my childhood. I am currently 26 or so, so, but, but, but from childhood, I have a very vivid memories of all of my childhood, of her normal experiences and everything. So the earliest memory for me is I woke up inside of the ocean. I saw a beach in front of me, colorful umbrellas, everywhere, people playing in, in the ocean and things. And I looked at myself and I wondered, why am I so red? But that was in, in, in, in my home, in my home language. So I asked myself, why am I so red? I walked along the beach. I saw a live court house. I went in, I saw a, a couple of having intercourse and everything went black. And that's when the, the memory stops. And then the first dreams I've had is a very weird dreams, like standing in front of the other two galaxies. I had to choose one of the two galaxies. I, I sold into the galaxies and I saw a planet with terrestrial creatures on, on it, and I wanted to go to it. And I went to the one that was the most interesting. And then basically I woke up and, and my, my dreams are very vivid. I can dream into the future for sure. I, I, I experienced on whoops though. Like I can give you an example. I was in the third grade, I was about six, seven a about, I dreamed about a classroom. I'm going to school. See the kids, see the teacher in front of, you know, vivid colors, everything on the chalkboard on turning around. I see a go at the bank and I woke up and a few years later I transferred schools. And my first day that exactly that exactly the same dream, like deja VU, everything in exact detail happened again. So And, and, and that, wasn't the first experience for me. And often after that, I started to, to, to become a weird kid, you know, like I'm, I'm one of the strange kids. I don't fit in anywhere. Like I played rugby. I was on the first team, but as well as I could fit in with the jocks, I could fit in with the email kids or their mental health. I didn't have a place where I fit in into society, you know? So, so on my, on my genuine, trying to find myself, I've been, there's been a lot of twists and turns in, in that room and spiritual spiritually with the religion, my sexuality, everything, everything just, just started to go haywire. And that brings us up until about 2012, where the symptoms really started. That's when I started to get paranoid because people was like, they knew me, you know, they, they know everything about me, so I was starting to get aggressive, but I got a girlfriend. I had a, at this stage, I was about 18 years old and she kind of helped me through it, but as well with some drug use here in the us and some marijuana smoking, everything just got more intense. And I don't know the exact moment when, when it snapped, when everybody started hearing my thoughts, that's when everything went into panic mode. That's when I was concentrating on not to think naughty thought, bad thoughts, extreme thought, you know, that I was very, very conscious on, on what I was thinking. And I couldn't control what I was thinking. If I see a person that, that might have the slightest flu, right. And I will call them out on the floor in, in inside of my thoughts and the reactions, those people usually, ah, give me the, there is always a little small reaction that, that, that, that two years, the entire Ellucian, a hallucination, sorry, I'm just touching a bit. And it went on and on and on until things turned very sexual. That is when I completely lose my last, my mind from about 2013, til about 2015. When I, everybody, everybody movies or television, music, radio society, and my family, people around me, as soon as I turned my back, or if I go somewhere private or something, everybody's having sex. It's like you, that is, is, is, is, is having the funky time, you know? And then as soon as the other, everybody stops, everybody's just like, I, how are you? And on the inside, I'm like, I don't know what to do in your role. Now. I know what you doing, you guys, so can we please stop? Or at least let me join in, you know, so it went on through a few years. Like the music music is very, very, very important in my life. Any genre, any language or any, I mean, like Anything, as long as it speaks to me on, on, on the, the level, you know, so music, TV TV's Oh, it used to revolve around me. It's like I was in the moment, every character, side character, main character, female character, a character, male character. It was based on my life. Everything was based on my life. And that was about my life until 2014, 2015. That's when everything started to, to, to die down and everything started to go very calm and the voice has started being nice to me. I actually, so I was like, yeah, I can, I can live with this just for, for clarity. I haven't used mates until 2016. So I was, I was without mates throughout my entire life until 2016. So, and everything was just very, very hectic, crazy. And the one day that made me snap was I did some drugs in the night before, and I didn't sleep well and everything just got to me, you know, and I snapped and I told my father, listen, I'm going to start killing people. If they don't start telling me the truth. And he was like, what truth? What are you, what are you talking about? I told them the people that can hear my thoughts are, why wouldn't you tell me? You can hear my thoughts and everything, you know? And I just went on and on and on. And I was starting to get angry. I told him I was gonna about to kill everybody. I see, you know, it was, it was very, very scary. And then he, he called it a psychiatrist. He admitted to me. And from there, she, she, she put me on Solium and from there, the voice has got nicer. I got to a new girlfriend and she, excuse me, she actually took all the voices away. She gave me the blessing of no symptoms for about four years. And since the Corona hit, now we separated. So I'm single again. I have nobody to, to keep my mind occupied. So everything is just to be turning back to normal. All the voices are starting again, the paranoia starting again. And but at least the fit of rage. It's, it's it's for, from happening. I am currently very happy in my life. I thought about it and I thought it was, it was just that she kept my mind occupied a, a S let me try and explain it. Like every time I told her I'm starting to have symptoms, ah, she was with me in the chair, a rehabilitation center. I met her there. She was there for depression and, and all sorts of other personal reasons. And I was there for substance abuse, schizophrenia and muddled hallucinations. So we, we met in the, in the, in, in the center and we, we hit it off. And from there, we just, we just built on our relationship. And every time I told her, listen, I'm starting to hear the voices. They, they're not nice to me at this moment then. And all she said, the whole time is stop thinking about it, pull yourself together and get through this. And every time it freaking work, It's, it's, it's, it's different. It's definitely different. Cause I, I tried to tell myself every time she told me to calm down, get a hold of myself and everything. I was just like, okay, it's it's, it's it's time to calm down. Everything is all right. Nothing is happening. I can go on. So yeah. You know, in, in, in the first night I met her in the rehabilitation center, we were lounging on a couch watching TV and we was swapping war stories, you know, and I told her and I told her everybody can hear my thoughts. And I'm so paranoid. If somebody is going to do something one of these days, I'm so paranoid. And she told me in a calm voice, I can't hear your thoughts. And that was the moment I snapped. That was really the moment I, I pulled everything together and says, wow, this, this may be something real, you know, so something can happen from this. Maybe I can get better if, if, if I'm constantly around her or do something about it makes this woman, my wife, you know? And so I was slowly in, in the progress trying to make him my wife. We will be engaged in everything until the crew and I hear it. And then we went our separate ways, but that's, that's a good thing. I don't know what I can explain from a, those dreams. I explained what I had and that one memory about the beach. That's actually a memory. That's something I had before. I told everybody I knew before I started using drugs before the symptoms started and everything, I told everybody, I am reincarnated from another galaxy. So I did try and explain everybody like, listen, I, I have a supernatural power as I can travel through time as well because of this and this and this. And nobody believes me, but I know the truth. I don't need anybody to, to believe me as long as, as, as I believe myself. And in the spiritual sense, I do believe I am God in a man's body. Okay. I have tried writing scriptures and my own Bible And and things like that. But every single year, it changes to something different. As soon as I learn something new in science or, or something like that. So excuse me. At the current moment, I believe is true to some sense, like a real, I'm sorry. I hate it. When I started religions in all her religions or true to some extent, the old gods are aliens and aliens are God's and I believe I my soul is, it is one of them I'm just trapped in a human body. I just have to accept that. So, so basically I'm a man living on a planet and enjoying myself to my fullest extent, To be honest with my MS, I do need to inject myself every third day or every second day, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. I need to inject myself. So the, the little, my, my, my antibodies doesn't detect my, my, my thin sheets of brain covering. That's the word I lost the word now. So I'm trying to explain what, what, what what's happening inside my brain. But anyway, work was well until the symptoms started. And it was very, very, very hard for me to go to work by myself. I am an autoclave technician, which means I maintain and service sterilizers in the theater's and <inaudible> of all the hospitals. So M it was very difficult to in the beginning, when my, when my symptoms really started showing, it was like, everybody is looking at me, mocking me. I don't know what I'm doing. Why am I even here? And, and that was a very, very hard for me. And I actually tried to kill myself. So I, I believe I succeeded in killing myself if you would like some details on how I, on how I tried it. And when did this happen? And I think that it wasn't about 2013 or 2014, a that's when the peak of my, of my symptoms started with, with my paranoid schizophrenia. And I tried to kill myself in my core by rapping the SA the, the, the, the seatbelt around my neck, driving, driving tool about a, a a hundred Ks per hour. That's about 60 miles, I believe, and just slamming on the brakes. And I, I, I did do that. And when I came to, I was, I was still in my car. So he said to you about around my neck music, playing, speaking, speaking tongues, the music was speaking tongues to me. And the few words that I could make out is how wonderful was the color. And that's when I went black, I came home. I was still, I was just out of my teams and I, and I was still living with my parents. And I came home. I asked my mother was white. It was everything again. Why aren't you telling me the truth? Why a while you hiding the facts from the why, why, why and why? And I locked myself in inside my room. So often that everything went silent for a bit. And that's when we force forward until 2016, I got my meds. I got diagnosed and everything just started looking brighter. I liked to smoke marijuana. All right. And, and marijuana is a very intense, spiritual, religious experience for me. Every time I smoke it. So, so often I smoke it. It's like everything becomes alive and I can see messages, your messages in, in, in everything, besides the voices over overall, the background noises, like I have headphones on now, and I can hear it, a chat to outside of the outside of the, the headphones, you know, so, but, but, but they were very excited in, in, in speaking with you trying to, to tell the story I have in the best, in the best degree that I, that I can tell it's unfortunately I do have some speech impediments, so that's quite difficult getting my messages across, but that's all right. I I'm, I'm living with, with this speech impediments now since 2012. So my early childhood years of, of my teen years at the end of my team has a I'm so sorry. I'm excuse me. You said that it was very, very, very difficult from, from 2012. I was very, very paranoid. It was, it was a terrible, I lost all my friends. I don't have any friends because I actually alienated to them because they, they were conspiring against me. They were planning on murdering me. So I tried as fast as I could to alienate them because I was afraid to have my life I. I really tried to avoid conflict situations. And that one instance in 2014, 2016, it was very, very, very hard for me. Cause I don't know what, what people actually actually are because it's very scary. Sometimes the, our listeners can get so vivid that I can see and hear people talk about me that looks moving in synchronisation with the words that I'm hearing inside of my head. So yeah, so, so, so it's quite difficult believing people sometimes when they tried to tell me stuff and I, I struggle really hard talking, To be honest in South Africa, the, the mental health side of, of, of hospitals and healthcare. Thank you so much for the word I lost the word. Thank you so much. Yes. The mental health outside of health care in South Africa is a very, very, very underpowered it's M is really terrible. My, my, my doctor didn't actually diagnose me. She only gave me my Solium and told me this should help with the voices. That's all she told me. I need to, I needed to do my own research on, on what do I actually have? How do I need, need to treat it and everything? And it turns out the medicine, ah, she, she gave me my, my mates. So is, is, is the correct medicines. She gave him, but she never diagnosed me. You know? So then they are very, very, I can't find it in a mess. Everything is just an image of a mess in this gun, in this country in general. So, but the health care side is also a bit nuts, so I'm okay. I think I covered everything, but I was a bit this organized in telling my story. With the health care? It's, it's a bit old school, as I can say. I'm, Riscal living in the olden days. All the doctors are all old, so they are quite the, they are already sit in in, in their ways, as I can say it like that. Cause they, they don't actually try to help you with anything to be honest. So, so they are, they're really just pathetic in my words. So let's say that. So that's my opinion on that. Yeah. Oh, no. Not at all. Not at all. Everybody is very supportive. They, they crack jokes sometimes. So it's fun. Unlike the, the skitzo guy at work. So they poke fun at me, but I don't, I don't take offense to it, so I don't take offense to it. I actually love it all on the one side they acknowledge me. So, yeah. But like I said, I like all sorts of genres. The only thing that stands out is some Viking metal and some, <inaudible>, <inaudible>, <inaudible>.I'm doing fantastic. How are you? So I had a pretty normal development. I, I have great parents who continue to support me, even when I was a kid. I, I had good parents growing up. They, they might have been a little bit on the neglectful side, but I mean, overall, I mean, I I'm super blessed to have them in my life. Yeah. I, I, I was born with an umbilical cord around my neck and I was putting an incubator for a time. And I think that that had some kind of influence on my development. I remember being very sad, a lot as a kid and never crying. And as I grew older, I, I had a pretty normal development. I had friends and things like that, but I think I got infected with toxo. Plasmosis could have been a fever, but I got a very high fever diseases. Yes. Yeah. And if, if you have schizophrenia or S Schizoaffective disorder, you might wanna look into, or even bipolar, you might wanna look into toxic plasmosis and the research regarding that, because I think it's, it's very, it's a, it's a factor that, that might influence your development. I've heard about it actually. So, yeah, so I was about 11 when I got this infection and my cat started having problems with her, her bowels, and she would just poop all over the place. And then I got sick. And after this, I, I kind of changed after I had this, this sickness. I, I went back from my default when I was really young, to being sad a lot. I kind of would entertain myself with sadness. So yeah. I just think of dark themes. And when I was 13, I had this humiliating thing happen where like my porn on the computer, I had a sister who, who took the porn and like shared it with people at school. And I found that like super embarrassing. That's horrible. Yeah. Yeah. It was, it was pretty, it was pretty, pretty bad, but I don't know. I think I had unusual tastes probably as a result of this infection, which made it more embarrassing. And, you know, I, I just kind of retreated in my head and I was very sad for a long time. Never spoke of it. Never shared any of my, my problems with anyone. And when I was 22, it, it GA came to be too much. I was, I was initially diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, which I think is more along the lines of what's going on with me. But yeah. So I was, I was in a really bad way. I was, I remember sharing with my psychiatrist, like all my problems that I had never unloaded for like 10 years, 12 years. And it was weird because he said that I had disorganized thinking, like I wasn't speaking in a coherent sentences, but the way I remember it, like I was speaking coherently, it was just like, my, my reading was that it was so sad, like the nature that he had, some defense mechanism where he couldn't comprehend it. And he said, I was talking word salads when I was not, you know, so yeah. I, I don't like to get into the nitty gritty details of like the facets of the sadness or whatever, you know, a lot of, I, I think it's, it's really what, what I, I discovered when I was 22 or 23, it, it was in 2011. I had, I stopped taking my medications for like six months. And I, I became like, I was eating, I was eating pasta. So I was eating ravioli every day for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And I just started, my imagination, went just over an overdrive. And I wrote this story called baby bar, like three days it's available on Amazon, if you want to pick it up. But it's baby bar by Andrew Frazier. I wrote that in three days. And it, it's a really interesting story. Like it's, it's, it's about the virtue of IDC and war. It's actually very prescient to the, to today because it's like a war between the Soviet union and the allied powers, but it's, it's a comical story. It's it's much like catch 22. But after that I got hospitalized and I was put on whisper all, but I, I didn't sleep. I broke the world record for sleep deprivation. It was something like 14 days by my estimation. I can't verify that nobody was checking up on it. I'm not in the Guinness book, but yeah, I, I, I suffered for that. It, it took me about a month and a half to recover. And when I got outta the hospital, I really didn't have the patients to like tie my shoes. So, I mean, I had really negative impact and, and I wasn't getting anything done. I was failing in school for many years. I got a job as a cart pusher at Walmart. And I, I remember just how blessed I was to have that job, you know, and so thankful for it. And in 2015, I fell in love with this woman. Like the, the second I saw her, I, I just fell in love with her. I had a girlfriend at the time and I, she left the work and I, kids do not like I was so disappointed that I hadn't told her how I felt that I started throwing up my medications every day. And I didn't sleep for about six days that, that time. And I was still showing up to work and I was blacking out on the sales floor, like singing show tunes and stuff. And so I, I, I eventually quit my job because I, I couldn't handle it anymore. And I mean, they, the, my manures and stuff were, were very understanding. And, and I went back to school. I actually, during this in 2015, I was diagnosed with bipolar. So it, it kind of evolved. And that's when I really took seriously cutting out gluten for my diet. And I went to school and I took chemistry two, and I did really well in the course. I got an, a, I got a 98 on the final exam, and this I think was attributed to cutting out gluten and dairy. I was eating a, a low carb diet and I was doing really well on it. And then I, I took programming course a little while later. I, I think next semester, the semester after that, and I did really well again. And then I took one more semester and I just, I had stopped taking my medications once again. And I, I, I dropped out, I just stopped going to class. I was working on the game full time. I had picked up the game because I felt like everything, like, like I had failed at everything. And so I just wanted to fail at one thing and not do what my parents wanted me to do. Just, just work on this one thing for the rest of my life. And I thought I would fail at it, you know, at first. And yeah, it, it it's come a long way. And five years, I remember after about a year and a half of coding, I came up with this engine called the centric, which was this way of increasing the map size from 200,000 units to, to like a three de like astronomical numbers. And then, yeah, I, I worked on that for, for about three years. And then I recently last year started a new project, a new game engine called the double cast engine, which is far more powerful and it's more efficient it's in every way better. Yeah. That sort of thing. It's, it's the game mentions actually, the term is kind of confusing because it's used recursively. It can mean like a game editor. Now they use the term editor for like, I making this in unity, but the game engine is, is the core logic. Every game has its own game engine. Yeah. It, if you can understand it that way, and the game engine I develop, the double cast engine is, is really a lot like no man sky technology. So it's called the double cast engine, cuz it's cast to a double. And, and so you have astronomical. I, I worked PR primarily in C sharp. I did a little bit of C plus plus as well when I was making projects in unreal. But yeah, it's, it's primarily C sharp, but really this game gay mention can be done in any gay engine. You can imagine it's, it's got three components to it, the Oracle physics engine, the double cast engine in the origin V2 logic. So there's a lot of basically Yeah. Well the, the physics engine is really for Newtonian interactions and a lot of these 3d space Sims, they don't have that. They don't have 3d interactions in the, in the game. So they, they have modified physics or something like that. So really in the game demo, it shows me shooting a soccer ball, like with lasers, the idea of this recent project was to make like a rocket league in outer space with spaceships and yeah, it involved that well at first it it's, it's pretty easy because the physics engine is inbuilt. If you're not making like a massive world, one of these like double cast engines, like no man sky kind of things, it's very easy. But once you have like this other way of doing it, which is like observer centric model, you have to adjust the physics for that. And it's very, it's very difficult and complicated is Ye yes. Yeah. Yeah. Because especially the double cast engine Yeah. It's an interplay of both logic and mathematics. So really I just, I just would stick on a problem and think of like, is there some way to do it and I'll come up with crazy ideas, right? Like, like things that would, I, I don't think would ever work. And then I like say, well, what if it could work? Like how would I go about doing it? And then I come up with like crazy ideas of how it would work. Like the, the trade lanes in particular are, are very mathematical. So basically like if, if you have like a vector three and unity, like you can do a normalized magnitude thing, but in a double it's a different data type and you have to make those methods yourself. And the way that they, they interact from float to double, like when to cast is really important to determine like the accuracy of the trade lanes. So like, if you want trade lanes that can go on forever, like 12, 20 million units or something like that, like you, you really have to, Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So 64 bits are much bigger numbers and that allows you to make a, a, a map size that's much, much greater than you normally would otherwise. And another thing about, Yeah. It's like the best thing that's ever happened to me, like really in terms of just having something to do. But I, I mean, I would say that, that it wouldn't have been possible. Had I not cut out gluten and dairy for my diet for as long as I had that really was, was like jet fuel to my brain. Like I remember when I, when I cut out gluten and dairy for a year and a half, I remember thinking to my myself, like, when's the last time I was depressed. Like when was the last time I had a suicidal thought or anything like that, which was prior to that, like very kind of normal circumstance for me, it would be like an everyday thing. And yeah. So, so it had a profound impact. It was, I say it's more important than the medications yeah. Is to go off gluten and dairy for me. For sure you eat beyond burgers. That's great. Yeah. They're, they're delicious. Yeah. I I'm surprised how close to an actual burger it actually is. Yeah. And they're gluten free, so Yeah. Cool. I ate a pizza a few days ago. I just don't know what compelled me to do it self sabotage or something like that. And about three days ago, I, I ate a whole Domino's pizza and I, I, within 30, 40 minutes, I just started acting up. You know, I was, I was really kind of hectic. And now I'm kind of recovering from that. It's been, it's been like two or three days since I've had the pizza. And so like, I I'm making my bed and cleaning up on that. But as far as programming goes, I think I still need a little bit longer. I'm I'm currently working on procedural networks for the trade lanes. Yeah. So that they populate themselves on, on build or on play Yeah, they, they, they update at, at the start method and, and so I want to output a, a text file that has the position. So it's the same for every game, but I want the first one to be randomized. So it populates in itself. And then I save the information and, and Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Like, I'll go to sleep thinking about a problem and come up with a solution the next morning. Yeah. Or something like that. Just the fact that you're thinking about it all the time means you come, come up with some kind of solution. And yeah. A lot of the times I figure out things when I'm going for a walk. So I'll, I'll just be not paying attention to nature or anything. I know this is probably not, not very Buddhist or anything like that, but I, I fixate on the problem and then I go Eureka, that's how you solve it. And I come back. And so really it's, it's, it's a lot, lot of time where I'm just thinking about how to solve problems, like for a long period of time. Yeah. I mean, certainly at least for me cutting out the gluten was a big part of that puzzle. So I just noticed that I was eating pasta, ravioli, pasta, macaroni, and cheese. Every time I had one of these problems, one time it was a cheese steak that I ate. So, I mean, I, I learned this lesson, then I learned it over and over again, you know, because it, it really does take a moment where I'm just like, okay, I ate this food and I'm having a reaction. So now, like, I, I've gotta commit to cutting this out, you know, for the rest of my life or for a period of time. Yeah. And it, that, that was probably the, the, the biggest part of the puzzle for me also taking medications are important. Yeah. Yeah. The meds definitely do help as much as it pains me to admit it because I don't, I don't, I mean, I just feel like, you know, it's kind of lame when I take my meds. I don't ever look forward to taking my meds. I'm just like, I gotta get this deed done. You know, it's not, it's not something I ever look forward to. And, you know, I, I do have it as a goal of mine, a persistent goal to be stable off meds. So I think that would mean more to me than all the money in the world. Yeah. I think that covers it. Yeah. Thank you so much for this podcast. I really like how you're giving a voice to people who really normally are overlooked. So I, I applaud you for this, this podcast. I really like ALJ. So I don't know what, what kind of, what, what That is like, I guess it's kind of like electronic alt rock or something like that. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I hope I'm not boring. Your listen. You're. You're welcome. Thank you.I'm a very good appreciate the chance to come on and give my voice and lend it to the movement, to unstigmatized schizophrenia. Well, for me you had kind of the disease kind of stalked me for a little bit until it decided to really show its face beginning about, about 10 years ago. And I kind of knew what was happening because by career-wise I am actually a psychologist. And so I had had lots of experience with a mental disease and even, even before getting my own diagnoses, I used to even use the term mental illness and I don't anymore. I differentiate between mental disease and almost a non chronic illness that's that comes and goes to me, there is a very big difference in the way you have to look at it and treat it and realize that it's a permanent affliction. That's not just going to go away. And so the, the symptoms began to surface, like I said, about 10 years ago and I kind of had an idea of what was happening though. I had somewhat a hopeful desire that it wouldn't be that, but I have been too close to those who have the disease to not know exactly what was happening. And then it really just went full steam almost immediately. And I had some of the most worst symptoms you could think of. And really I, I should have at the time been institutionalized, but I didn't. And I really think that's kind of what precipitated the disease, taking a strong as an effect on me that it did, which really destroyed my marriage and family and career at the time. And that's unfortunately been permanent like the disease itself. And so I went through, I'm a barrage of symptoms, a large gamut of them to where it is. It pretty much makes it almost non specific form of schizophrenia because there's to many symptoms to narrow it down to just a paranoid or Schizoaffective. Mmm it's it's unfortunately the worst of the grab a bag that someone could have, It's, it's really difficult for us, for me specifically to pinpoint what I could think could have. I think it's number one, genetic, but as far as I know, there's not a single person in my family or the history going back that IO has any symptomology of having the disease, some bipolar and depression and certain people. Yes, but schizophrenia, no, not in any shape or form. My history of growing up is one of extreme pain suffering, trauma violence. I'm just a whole, just a really terrible horror story. So you would almost think that back then it would have surfaced, but it, it didn't, it really, I'm, I'm really a survivor of what I went through and still going through. And so really when the disease decided to surface, I had been married for a couple of years and I had a child who was around a nine to 10. I had, you know, I was doing multiple things psychologically wise and working another job, publishing a book. I'm also, I'm an ordained monk in the Buddhist tradition. And so I had, you know, many, many, many years of mental training and acuity as well as being a psychologist. So there was nothing in my lifestyle that would have been noted. I'm doing something that might've precipitated it coming to a genetic fruition. I just think, Hey, it decided this is going to rear its head. You know, when I'm around 40, 41 years of age, maybe a little bit before that, when it started its onset. And then that basically just led to a, it just blossoming as strongly as a woman and to, and then sooner or later I began finally taking some anti-psychotics to battle the symptoms. And that, that was a horse show in itself, going through the various ones defined one that would work for me. I mean, those, you know, I, I was a very adamant anti-medication person being a psychologist and not a psychiatrist. Cause I had seen a lot of the damage that drug's did and then looked up the effects for taking them for myself and just realized how much of a Guinea pig I was going to be. And that was a whole horror story in itself, trying to find one that Well was somewhat working in. And then I actually got off of them for a while. And then finally got back on to them again when I found one that I could order from overseas because of the cost involved in the us is just outrageously ridiculous for people trying to get help and get drugs with basic insurance. And then like, like for myself, what, what I notice is if the medication just really takes the edge off, because the number of symptoms that I have are so unfortunately wide ranging that there's, it's the daily struggle to just get through the basic things because of issues with like anhedonia and abolition and allergy and, and various symptoms that, because the lack of motivation, inability to express yourself, not having an enjoyment and doing Anything, you know, how that affects you, trying to have a basic job. Even the most simplest, even the most simplest of jobs can be everyday can be just an anxiety inducing horror show for someone who has not got the edge taken off with the medications, lowering the affects of the brain, that just information just floods in and aggravates you. And then it can cause like an emotional reaction in that of course can send you into psychotic episodes or disassociate this association in various other problems. Yeah. For, for me and now, you know, like 10 years later, it's definitely not as horrifically strong as it used to be when they first said in who was it? It was, I really cringe at how much I put my wife and child through, but I was, you know, I'm sick it. So it's not like it's, you know, something, you can just stop doing, you, you have a disease and the brain is malfunctioning and this is now formed and it's not like you're choosing, or one thing is delusions because they're terrifying. The one, couple of them was seeing demons. And that really, that really terrify me usually in the evening and at night getting up to like use the restroom would be a horse show because I would have to, I would think that they were coming up from the, the basement do you know, to come after me. So I would, I would sometimes barricade myself in the restroom and, and wouldn't be able to come out till my wife come down and got me the feelings of things crawling in your brain, in on your skin. And the bug thing is a lot of people call it for me. You know, it was like just every orifice had something crawling in it and actually in my skull. And unfortunately it was so bad that I actually tried to panning where I was going to drill a hole in my skull with a drill that I know I had. She came, you know, that when it stopped me before I cause too much damage. So things along those lines and then the unfortunate effect of a, the voices a, that was really problematic hearing things being said, of course, well, I had a kind of an elder, the wide range of them. It wasn't just the negative ones. Like people saying are yelling, things that are wrong. Mmm. A hurtful way and such, but I would have here, like, what did you say? Oh, I didn't say anything. And I would just, you think that there was conversations going on and I would be confused as to who's talking to me. And so I was very disoriented, many times that way, not knowing conversations that I had or ones that I didn't have. And then another one, another one that was very problematic was it sounded like there was like a group of people having a conversation in the other room, or like a radio station on an old radio when you would go through the channels and it would kind of have that light noise sound. I would hear that a lot of times, and that would cause problems going to it. And really, you know, now that's kind of the only one, I, I really have a long the lines of the, the audible audible purse. Great. Now, visually now there's, I'm a grab bag of them that happens. I've actually been able to okay. Transfer the inner landscape over to an external artistic one. And I've actually been able to create the artwork was that shows what I am seeing. Luckily I have the ability to do that, and that's very cathartic for me to get that out of my system and kind of externalized the internal. So other people can see it and say, Oh, well, I have the same thing that I go through. I'm glad somebody else put it on like a foot, a photograph or a piece of artwork. The skin crawling things still gets to me a lot of times, I can't remember the something ptosis or something like that to where you feel like bugs are all over you. And then there's as many times a lot of problems speaking and getting out what I'm trying to say. They sometimes call it like word salad or other times they call it like a word or a speech desert where you can communicate what you're saying. A and M a lot of times like Phantom feelings or smells or sensations. So there is a lot of that is still existing in my purview that I have to deal with on a daily basis. But locally, one of the, Oh, sure, sure. I have a, a, a large arsenal that I've created the first at first and foremost lifestyle is the, the, the biggest key one. I try to limit as much as I can being in areas that are overly stimulating, loud, lots of music, lots of noise, a lot of movement too much that can overwhelm my senses and just kind of set me S you know, you don't set the person off into a psychotic episode where you dissociate or your emotional reaction is through the roof, which is really a kind of flight or fight or flight reaction, a lot of mental drills of going through, like doing mindfulness of the body, of what I'm feeling, mindfulness of the emotions, of what I'm feeling, try to recognize to a mantra, a system of single-mindedly focusing on something like a repeated phrase that can reorient the mind and kind of get it back on the rails once it comes off. And so there is a lot of techniques like that. Diaphragmatic breathing is very important, belly breathing as they call it. There's actual ways to where you can massage of the body in a certain pressure points on the body to help stimulate calming the nervous system down. So there is a large grab a bag that I've acquired over the years that well, I used in my counseling years ago, I now apply it to my own needs and situation as they arise. But unfortunately, sometimes it's, it's just a crap show when you just try to do damage control. Sometimes the internal emotions are so strong. I can sometimes create artwork to cope with it. So I do a, what would that be? An art therapy too, kind of get the emotion in a cathartic sensor out of my system and make myself feel better of getting it onto the paper and kind of expelling it from myself. So there is, I also exercise routinely on a daily basis to help focus myself and get rid of maybe excess energy or agitation I might have. So there's a multitude ways that I do that using martial arts and such. Well, I usually try to live a very mindful on a day to day basis and not have too much ambition in my bag because I don't want to set myself up with any type of grandiose thinking that might be delusional. And so I'm very much second guessing myself many times as to what it is I want to accomplish, but right now, most of it's focused on just keeping my health the best I can and doing the job that I currently have the best I can, but trying to do it to where I don't set myself up for catastrophic failures in over extending myself, I'm doing a lot of artwork and, and an extensive amount of writing right now. I'm, I'm actually writing a couple of books about the disease and to different ones, but it's on two different topics on the disease. And one is actually about people who have had the disease, but have accomplished great things in our society around the world. And so that's kind of an interesting study of others who have had it, who have suffered in many, have lost their lives to it because of suicidal ideation and such. So I kind of want to give voice to all of those in a kind of large format, not just one biography, but just everybody in general and say, look, even if have the disease you can accomplish great things. It's not that disease. Doesn't just make who you are. It's your, who you are. Plus you have a disease. You, no, it's not the schizophrenia. Brian, it's Brian who has schizophrenia. He's also got all of these other things he's accomplished. I just, this year published my fifth book. So there was a lot that I'm creating, but at the same time, I have to be very weary of this. You can drop the next minute and I can have terrible symptomology. And I have to take a step back from doing anything in, just give myself as much care as I can, and just survive day to day. I mean, getting out of bed can be a challenge sometimes for us. And I'm just glad to just do the simple things like that and not overextend myself too much. But I would say the desk kind of what I'm focused on doing is those large extent of items like that. Relationship wise, I have pretty much given myself over to just a very hermit, like celibate lifestyle and just not really intertwined myself with another emotionally, because for me, it's just a very, not the most secure sounding area as already, you know, I lost my wife. And so I don't really want to put myself through that. And it's not a big deal for me at all. Really companionship is good, but when my mind's not working the best that it can, I really don't want to put someone else through that. And I know some people would say, well, you can have find someone who will love you for who you are, but that's, that's a nice aphorism to say. But the reality of it, it's a lot more complicated in people who are far less forgiving than others think they are, especially when it comes to mental diseases, as opposed to if your missing an arm or you're blind or your mute or something like that, that's a lot more acceptable for people. But an invisible disease is not as much as accepted when it comes to interpersonal relationships. You consider yourself disabled. It was certainly in some regards Yeah, and it's one of the worst ones because it's not only manifest physically, but it manifests cognitively. And in our society, in, in the West, the way most people are viewed survival wise in our, in our culture is how you can be productive. Job-wise, you know, how much are you worth to the market? And Yeah, that's a despicable way to treat human beings, but unfortunately that's the way the market is geared and society is geared. And I'm the greatest parts of society say to the opposite of that book, the ones who are behind the most of society, that's they're standard of measuring people. And so when you are disabled in a certain regards, and you accept the fact that you don't work to your full potential, like you use to when you were younger and everything was working, you know, all the 18 wheels were working on the rig, and now you're down to half the wheels. You have to be real about your situation and what you can accomplish and what you can do in, for me, giving myself that buffer zone of you could only do so much, don't push yourself. That allows me to not put myself in situations of creating stress environment that can cause a relapse and a lot greater issues to manifest. Well, I've become a very, a big advocate as to what the disease actually is. And not only does it literally affect the physical form of the brain, but it has a detrimental effect cognitively on the ability to comprehend and Sarah tone and levels. And so it causes positive and negative manifestations of symptoms that involve, you know, that bio electrical system of the brain, the way it physically works, the chemical process. So unfortunately the brain really comes after you won about every gambit of how the brain and the mind works. And so it's an all encompassing disease that can also physically deteriorate the person. 'cause when you look at things like depression and various symptoms, it can actually physically manifest and cause literal pain in the person registered as pain. So it's, it's way above just psychosomatic. It's a literal physical ailment that manifests physically as well as psychologically and emotionally. Well, you know, it, it just, you know, not only does it, it do all those, you know, it does all those things that I've mentioned, but then it affects something that is considered more abstract, which is a perception. And that's where in, it can not get as much empathy from people because you know, all, why don't you just stop acting up? Why didn't you just, you know, realize what's going on. But you know, those things come from a physical properties of the brain that the, the mind is in cased within. So even if you've got a great driver and the seat of a car, if the car is like a jalopy that can barely hardly do anything and wrecks all the time, it doesn't matter if you've got a great race car driver behind the seat. And like, I know you've mentioned another times about spirituality is very important. It is, it is for me to, and so I view the human essence to be a, a vehicle that can perfect itself on many levels, but we do have to deal with what the vessel is we have now. And I think really that's one thing we need to work on having not only compassion for everybody else, but 100% first and foremost for ourselves and a love ourselves for all of the faults and all the positive things we have. Details of the exact description. If you want to get in to talk to your friends about any of this is very much Brian. Thank you very much for having me in lending, you know, a human voice to the movement. I greatly appreciate it. Your work is extremely valuable and I thank you for doing it as much as you can. I hope you're. I hope your site in your group go away exponentially. Thank you. <inaudible>.