Thank you very much for having me. I appreciate being here. Well, the Schizoaffective stuff is really good, but the ADHD stuff has been pretty bad. Actually. I think that I've really learned a lot about ADHD and executive function disorder the past few months or a year that I had no idea. You know, it's, it's weird. Like with ADHD, you can't get anything done because you can't get anything started and then you can't finish anything when you start it and you will sit and ruminate over starting something it's really kind of a nightmare. And then you will sit for 12 hours and not do anything. So I've been struggling with that. And I didn't realize what it was until fairly recently, but I talked to doc and got a med change and I'm actually feeling a lot better with that just the past few days. So I think today, today, I'm pretty good. Everything's pretty solid. So You know, it's funny. I, I had read a article about as far as ADHD goes and how to deal with executive function disorder as an adult. And as I was reading through some of it talks about tricks. You do for kids, you get all their stuff together, you know, get everything you're going to need anything you might think of, get it all together, you know, and you got to organize it this way and you gotta do the time this way and you got to take your breaks this way. You know? And as I was reading through that, I'm like, well, I've always done that. Like this is not new information. Okay, I'm doing all this. Right. What's not working. So, but yeah, It's not an information, but a lot of it is like, how do I get to where I can do that? You know? Yeah. I think I didn't get my diagnosis until I was 35. And, but previous to that, I know as a teenager, I was bipolar for sure. And I, you know, you know how it is, you get that boyfriend, who's the bad boy. And then you start medicating self-medicating with cocaine. So that always made that made everything better. But so I quit doing drugs and got pregnant and I was 16 and I had a suicide attempt because my bipolar is really bad. And I had a suicide attempt nanny. That was the first time I went to the hospital. And why was in the hospital? Of course they couldn't give me any medications cause I was pregnant, but I had a psychiatrist and I did not. I was there with all kinds of kids who had drug problems and I'm like, I don't want to do the <inaudible> thing. I'm not in the mood to get drug counseling. I quit six months ago on my own with an addict in the house. I don't need this shit. We're not going to talk about this. But I had a Twitch. I had a, I had a towel and when I get nervous, I rub my nose. So I'm in this hospital full of people who know these things and a psychiatrist who knows these things in San Diego, California in like 1987, the height of cocaine. And this psychiatrist looks at me and he goes, you know, every time you get in, every time you talked to me, you rubbed your nose. Like the week before, the day before a couple days before he said that, I said, well, we're just outside. And there was a bug, you know? Oh, okay. So he made me nervous. I had switched my nose or rubbed my nose. And he goes, you know, there's no bugs in here. I was like, excuse me. He said, Jay, you rubbed your nose. I'm like, fuck, they're going to keep me for weeks. I got to do drugs. I, the drug thing, I don't want to do this. And he goes, you know what? I think your problem is, I think you don't like the size of your nose. Was quite comfortable with the size of my nose as a matter of fact. And I said, excuse me. He goes, yeah, I don't think you're comfortable the size of your nose. That's why you touch your nose. Are you nervous? I said, do you know what I think you're right. And by God, I made strides and leaps and bounds once released within less than a week because I was just cured. And I never wanted to see another psychiatrist again, because they're full of shit. They don't know nothing. You know? And in 2000 I got sent home from work to be, I was about 30 and my illness was bad. So I went to see a psychiatrist and they were treating me for depression and anxiety. So they were jamming me full of anti-depressants, which was making me manic. And then they were jamming me full of Xanax to bring down manic. Cause they're just miss medicating. Me. And that ended with me knocking a bunch of stuff off of my fireplace and a big dramatic fashion and slitting my wrist open on a broken candle thing on a broken lamp. And I had to have real serious surgery. It took out the artery and all the tendons and the nerves, you know, I can use my hand just fine though. So this was, this was a big dramatic, it was an accident arrest, but I had baked. I was in the middle of everything was not good in my life. It was a bunch of drama going on and I business big dramatic sweep across my, my fireplace top to knock everything off. And I got cut. And so I quit taking meds after that, obviously they weren't working. It's making me worse. And so five years after that, I was really depressed. And I went to the prompt care. My husband said, you need my ex-husband said, you need to go do something. There's something wrong. They'll get help. So I'm 35. I go to the prompt care and I'm crying. And I said, everything's fine. I don't know what's wrong. And prompt care doctor who I will, every time I see her, I say, Oh yeah, you're the doctor that saved my life. She said, you might be bipolar. I don't want to give you anything. Here's a family doctor. See this family doctor. He gave me Zyprexa the next day. I was a different person, different person altogether. So I get a psychiatrist and I'm seeing my psychiatrist and he says, it was like, PAREXEL will make you fat. So he went to Geodon and that's been my magic bullet as far as mental health goes. But within a few months, not a year, my oldest son committed suicide. And after his suicide, around the time of his, around the time of the inquest, I was talking to the coroner and he, he said, do you want to know what I'm gonna say at the inquest and everything in my body said no. And I of course said yes. And he told me no. And by the end of that, I had a complete psychotic break and believe my son was not dead. So I did not go to the hospital for that. But they put me on a, yeah, the one that starts with an R Respiradone. And I came out of that within the night. And I did eventually go to the hospital. But that break from reality was what changed my diagnosis of Schizoaffective disorder. And because I was in a cult Jehovah's witnesses, I also had delusions about demons being everywhere. And I had a lot of delusions. I was pretty sick. I was, I mean, I was sick enough that it really ruined my marriage. My second marriage ended when I had a suicide attempt and it was not good. Things were in my life. I was not, I was not well for a very long time. And this was 40. I was 40. So 10 years ago was my last suicide attempt yet I'm in such a better place now I'm just bringing up. Definitely. That was, did not see that coming. Studies on trauma and what it does to your brain. My mom died when I was 18 months old, I was born addicted to heroin and my mom died in a car accident when I was 18 months old. So I remember my first, what I consider a psychotic break. I was like four and I had a whole meltdown over this Teddy bear being real. It was not cool. So I was a real sick kid, you know, and ADHD on top of it, but I was loved and cared for and taken care of. But I think that trauma and then the trauma of my son's suicide altered some brain stuff for me. Definitely. I have a son. Well, I have two sons. I had two sons and two daughters. My oldest son died and he was 19. My youngest son is 28 and mentally ill. And then medicated. I had to call the police in the crisis team forum the other night and he chose not to get help. So I don't know how that's going to go, but I love him very much. And I want him to get better. I sent him information, you know, and that's all I can do from, for now. My oldest daughter, she has depression, but she's well and healthy. And really we get along great. Actually my son, my youngest son, I get along great too, but he's just not talking to me right now, but we get along great. But he's sick. And my youngest daughter has borderline personality disorder, some Schizoaffective stuff. Some, you know, I don't regret having my children. I would, I love my children and I am blessed to have them no matter what's happened and what they do and what they've done. But had I known I was going to pass down this illness to them. I don't know that I would've done so, but I wasn't diagnosed until after I had them all. So Yeah, I think I'd know that there's like a chance you can pass down like a susceptibility. Like there's a probable, it's not, it's not clear. It's not like a genetic disorder is that, you know, it's not, It's not clear cut. And I guess if it was, maybe we'd handle it differently, but it's a crap shoot, you know, but I got it from my mom. She got it from her dad. My kids got it. Three of my kids got it from both sides, their mom and their dad. So I just, you know, I don't know. I, it's hard. It's hard to think that you caused the suffering of your children through no fault of your own. You know what I mean? I don't, I don't think you can fake like that, you know? No, I know exactly. And that's why I try not to Because you didn't do that. Did you, do you know what I mean? No. That's why I said through no fault of your own. So you can't have guilt for something you didn't do, but you feel bad. Anyway. It's a complicated parent feeling. It's not logical. It just happens. Okay, Nicole. So let me ask you some questions. How are you coping with life now? How's life now, Life's great. Three years ago, I went through another traumatic event. Surprise. My last husband tried to murder me and I was in college at the time. I had a 4.0 grade point average and I got three F's in a row right after that. So I had to quit school, but I got it. I got my career that I want now. I, well, I'm healthy. I'm not taking a bunch of meds. You're gonna take one pill for anti-psychotic. I take one antidepressant and I take my ADT meds. I mean, there was a period of time, 10 years ago where I was on six or seven minutes, you know, just to get through the day. But I'm well, I'm healthy, I'm stable. I'm working as a social worker. I work in social work and I work in a rooming house with eight schizophrenia. And I feel like, and I feel like raising kids for mentally ill and living myself with mental illness. And I took a year as a CNA in a long-term mental health care facility really has helped me to get to where I am now. I, I teach them life skills. Like I've been a mom for 30 years, you know, I've been teaching and I used to work at it. I worked as a professional cook for two years and I am a cake decorator and a Baker. And I was a CNA and I used to get your hopes witness, and I can literally talk to anybody, you know? And so I'm using all these things in social work and my mental illness to identify with the residents in a way that neuro-typical people can't that work in social work. And I feel like I have a special bond with my residents. Some of them who know, cause you know, you can divulge a little bit when you're talking with someone and you're trying to empathize with them, you know, but they know enough that I know about the voices. They know that I know about the little voice in your head when you're having a psychotic break, it's actually telling you, shut the hell up. That's not real, you know, but you can't get it out. You know? So they know, I understand a lot of things and I can, I can help, you know, and that's what I do. I work in a house and I made it home and I teach them life skills. I've taught someone how to use critical thinking. I've taught people how to cook for themselves. If I have one girl she won't ever, I don't think she'll get a job really out there in the world, much. She, she can, but I've been working with her in the kitchen on doing prep work. She helps me bake and I have her do prep work and I'm training her to work in a kitchen. You know, she could, she has, she would have to work with someone due to her illness. She hallucinates and speaks to them. She knows they're not real because she doesn't talk to them out loud, but it's distracting and people notice. And you know, I think when she can get to a better place, I think she'd really do well with that. So I just teach them stuff, you know, You know, you've got, you've got real life skills. It's like, you can't go to college, get taught college. You No, not in the book. And you know, I was reading about like in the UK, you have these peer support workers. So basically if you have a diagnosis yourself, you will current counsel or you become a friend of, of somebody else. Who's got a condition maybe they're younger and you will just help them and give them skills. Yeah, it's a good job. But I th I just read somewhere that some of them, some of them can be a little bit, I think cruel, you know, because, because they've got a job and you know, there can be a bit sort of, I dunno, what's the word, but like, as acting as if yeah, well we've made it, so do you know what I mean? And I I'll tell you exactly. Which is, which is probably something that they will grow out of, but I've caught go through that phase. I dunno, but I guess that is like a danger. I w I just wrote that, See that I don't think that's a phase. I think that's a problem. That's a personal Presa, personal issue. That's a serious personal issue. As far as a peer counselor, as where I would be, I would fit in that category. I make so many, you paid for it, you know, but if you are looking at yourself as anything other than an example for them, then you're doing this for the wrong reason. Your motive is bad, and you do not need to be helping other people. If your motivation is to look how much better I am than you, you've got other problems that need to be worked with personally, my opinion. Yeah. So I, I was quite surprised when I read that because I work in software. I work in competing, but I was, I actually did apply for some peer support jobs last year. I think I didn't, I didn't even get an interview, you know, but I fought because I fought it. It's something I would have liked to have done is kind of close to my heart. I think it's kind of like, because you actually feel, whereas in summer, when a lot of drops, I say a lot of jobs, people doing what they're doing, but the bonus a few, I don't know how much of a difference it makes. You know, how much of a, like, just typing something on the computer or even selling in the shop. You know? I mean, is it making a difference in the grand scheme of things? That's the, that's the difference, I suppose, which is important. I think, you know, because at the end of the day, that's what matters. I think when you get older, you look back and you're playing well, will the important parts of life is why you made a difference to someone. Do you help someone where you won? Yeah. That's, that's the thing that matters in the end. It really does. Looking back on my life. You know, I was raised by my grandmother and we were Catholic and army focus as who she was. I know she's a witch, I'm a witch too. I know she was a witch. She was a witch. Oh, I know it. I know it in my heart and soul. She was never, Oh, but she was, and she taught me to live by what Jesus said, you ain't take care of the elderly. You take care of the orphans. You feed everybody. If you, if they don't have you give to them whatsoever, you do. To at least my brothers that you joined to me, when you, when I was naked, you clothed me. You know? And I was hungry. You gave me an E I've always done that. No matter what I have done for a job, I'm doing something for someone in that capacity, whether it's literally taking care of kids, don't have family to take care of them or, or feeding old people. I quit my job because a Jehovah's witness sister moved because of her cancer into an apartment. So I quit the job I had so I could go cook for. So I'd make sure she was eating. And I had that job for two years. And then I, you know, started mental health. And my grandma taught me that you gotta take. And I announced what I do. I take care of the people who can't take care of themselves. And at the end of the day, you have to do something fulfilling. Exactly. If you, if you want to grow as a person and grow spiritually, that's the path, isn't it. You know what Jesus, we talking about Jesus, right? That message is, is, I dunno. I dunno what it's like in America, but in the UK, we don't hear about that side. The church, it's very, it's very kind of straight laced. The, where they were, they sing that hymns, but it doesn't talk about what he actually did 2000 years ago. What he, what he actually, you know, he was a kind person. He was a rebel of his time. He, if he saw something in some people in authority, like the religious leaders, if they were sad, I think they would, you know, like if, if they, if they ignored a homeless person and go speak to a homeless person, Jesus would go, you should speak to that person that person's equal to you. And you, you know, that sort of thing. And you don't hear about it, but that's the core message. Right? And that, and that's the core message, which is timeless. It Really is Because, because I don't know that that's what matters today. I'm always matters because at the end of the day, we will gonna need someone in our life at some point. And you know, that that's important. I think do unto others is really important. But I think a lot of people get it twisted. They're like I've been doing for people, what I want people to do for me. And they're not doing it for me. It's not what you're doing at honey. You're doing it because it's the right thing. And if everybody did it, because it was the right thing, your needs to be fulfilled too. But doesn't mean you have to stop being a good person, just keep doing the right thing. You'll get it. Someone will come into your life. You know, Karma's real. I think karma because it's like, I was thinking about it recently, but if you give love to the universe, the universe will give you that love back. I'm not saying, I'll give you back. I'm not saying they will give it back. Like, you know, five o'clock this afternoon, maybe, maybe next year something good will happen. Or it just all sort of things will start to get slowly better. You know, it's kind of like, it's kind of like, you know, it's like, but I think also it's not a question of just doing, doing one thing. You've got to keep doing that and you got to speed up. That's true. You have to actually be that human being. My grandma raised me like that. She was at human being. I'm that human being and, you know, for everything I've been through and all, all of it, you know, I look back and if I was raised differently by different people, in a different environment, I would be a really completely different human being. I really would be, you know, my, when I was a teenager, life was out of control and I was sick and I was angry and I was abused. I was abusing other people. It was just a nightmare. I mean know, and being where I am now in peace, you put love out to the universe. Yeah. You don't know how you're going to get it back. You know, I have all of these incredibly fulfilling relationships, you know, I'm getting love from people in ways that are just, that's what I need. You know? I mean, you think you tell the universe, I want this, I want that do you're really though. I don't. You see what the universe wants to give you and work with that, you know? Yeah. I, I believe that as well, you know? Yeah. You do get back with you. You do get back with you. I think you do. Yeah. I think you do, because I think you do. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. You can't spew negative and hate and be that kind of black hole person and expect things to go well for you that you get every good thing you get is going to turn to shit. You know, that's my ex-husband right now. He's had a whole new opportunity and everything he touched and it makes me feel good. Not because him, that's sad. It's pathetic. The whole thing is sad and pathetic with him, but it makes me feel good to know. It wasn't me. It really was him. And I've grown from this and you know, he hasn't, and that's given me a lot of closure, you know, Are you, are you also spiritual as your religious or spiritual? Because I'm quite, I'm quite into that spiritual side of life. You know, I practice magic. Do you believe in an afterlife? And I have, I died once and my son died once. And my son told me about his near death experience. And he ended up in the void. He was about six or seven. And he told me his experience. When he came out of the void, I've read enough near death experiences. I've got a pretty good hold on. What happens after you die your energy and to another dimension and there's things you can do. There's negative narrative experiences like the Gates of hell and yeah. And the void. The void is one. The void is boy. The void. The void is you time. There's no time in the void. And you're alone with your thoughts in the void. And you don't know how long it's meant. And Then there's your life in review where you watch your life over. That can be good. And you, you see, so every action in your life, like the main actions between some other person, you feel what they felt. So if you You'd be watching it from the outside and seeing it outside yourself And the other thing, then there's the other heaven ones are where you see your loved ones and you go through the light and there's ones where you go into a meadow and the peace and the heaven, the more heavenly ones, which is another dimension. My, I have decided, I think the best I have decided with my ex-husband. He tortured me. He mentally tortured me. I mean, it was bad torture. I mean, he, I went through torture for four solid years that I came out of really well and he'll have a punishment. I know what his greatest fear is. His greatest fear is living this life over and over and over again. He's afraid the universe expands and claps and expands and claps bangs in bangs out. And he has to do this the same way. He's doing it over and over and over and, and over. And he's very ill. And I think being alone with his thoughts would be a good place for him. So he can live his life now, eat, drink, and be Merry. And when he dies, he can sit in the void alone with his thoughts, watching his life interview until he learns, once he learns, they can move him on. It's a weird, it's an in-between station, wherever we go next, isn't the place we're going. It's an in-between place before you go onto your next, whatever the hell we're supposed to do next. But Nope, he needs to go to a nice little time out. And once he learns that he can come back into society and be with the other energies. And if he doesn't learn any breaks, they can do what they want with them. But, you know, I think, I think that would be a fair and just punishment. Not forever. He know it's not forever, but not forever just until he learns, you know, I mean, I think there's people who can live thinking, this is it. And they put all their energy into living their best life now and being the person they need to be. Now, a lot of people turn around selfishly and do stupid shit with it. I think it was a lot of people who try to live their best life because they don't believe there's anything after this, you know? Maybe for them there isn't no, I think, I think the afterlife is very personal. I really do. And GAF life is very personal and I believe if you believe something's about this giant DMT burst in your brain and you think you're in forever, but it's just your brain Diane or whatever that means you have to have your thought of what your afterlife needs to be in your head already for the moment of death and your DMT trip. You get the athlete if you want, you know, so scientifically if that's what happens, you can have whatever you want and whatever you truly in your heart of hearts believe because that's in the deepest parts of your brain that are now being exploited by chemicals that are making things real. So, and the Bible and religions teach that you need to make paradise or heaven or whatever real to you. And I think that's why I think if you want to look at it scientifically, you need to make your heaven or hell real to you in the back of your mind, because that's what you're going to get. And those last few moments, if that's what it is scientifically, I don't know though. I completely agree with you. I, I can channel, I've talked to dead people. I've had very strange experiences with that. And I know I'm not crazy because other people have told me I'm telling the truth. Otherwise I would think I'd look for half the shit that's happening. I'm like, am I crazy? No, that's really happening. Okay. Just checking, you're going through that too. But you know, like with the spirits and stuff, yeah. You're real there because your energy, there's no pretenses. And I hadn't really thought about it this way until you brought it up. But yeah, you're real there. There's no pretenses. This is who you really are at that point for essence, you know, and I do believe that there's something on the other side and then I do leave you go on, I've talked to them. I have friends who see them, you know, I know their real life. I can sense them. It's sweet. It really is the spiritual fascinates me. And I want to, I want to, I don't know. I did. I, I had a severe asthma attacks and they life flighted me to a major hospital and into, they intubated me in LifeFlight and a major hospital. Apparently I died in the helicopter and I have a vague memory of the inside of a helicopter cockpit and have someone in white being over the top of somebody else. And I was standing off from the back of it. I'm like, Oh, that was the nurse doing CPR on me in the helicopter. But I don't have any kind of anything after that. I think it was just the outside myself kind of feeling. But immediately after that, I wanted to contact your home's witnesses and joined the call. And plenty of people do that actually die. They become religious. So, but I'm spiritual now. And I, I think, I dunno. I just, yeah. I just feel like I've definitely a better grasp on what happens just from experience and what I've read and what I know personally, to be true rather than what it says in some ancient manuscript written by men. What I have found, nobody, I am real. I'm very real. I don't have a choice. I, I don't have any other way to be. And people do not understand me. People have the hardest grasp on, they don't get it. They don't get where I'm coming from. They don't understand who I am as a person. And if you just listen for a little bit, it's pretty easy to get who I am. I'm direct I'm to the point. I don't have time for games. I'm not warm. I'm not soft. I'm not buzzy. I'm nice. But you know, I can't, and people do not know how to handle down to earth people. You know? I don't know if it's because they're fake and they think I'm going to see through them, or if they just don't know what the hell to do with all this happening in front of them. I don't know. Smiling. Carry on fun, dark humor. Look, if it wasn't for dark humor, I'd be in a box I am. I am telling you, I am right in the middle of a whole situation of what the hell next is going to have. That happened. What's next. Oh, that's great. Well, let's find the humor there. That's great. Just really for anybody who's struggling, keep going, keep trying, keep going to therapy, therapy yourself, do your own thing your way, but work through it. You know, if you can use a voice, your advantage. I use voices to my advantage, to work through my bullshit. You know, I'll come home at night, sit alone in my house and have entire conversations, you know, just to work through my own bullshit with myself because I'm the only to listen to anyway, but you can get better. Life can get better. I was on disability for 12 years and I've had a job for after my son's suicide. I was on disability for 12 years and I had a job for two and a half years long. So I have a job, you know, I took a shower and brush my teeth two days in a row. You can do it. The success isn't going to be the same, but you can, you can get something be happy. Hey, I'm doing all right. Been a long day. They've been getting a little slower or a little darker, so, you know, Yeah, it does. Like now, I mean, it's, it's like seven o'clock and it's good and it's getting dark, but you know, eventually it's going to be pitch black at, before, you know, four o'clock, five o'clock that kind of thing. Living in a city, but it's not like the city there is like, you know, we're about 30 minutes out, so there is a hell of a city, but that, that place gets a little bit pricey. Yeah. I can guess that the first, like, indication that I would have noticed anything in the earliest memories I have is around maybe nine or 10 years old. This was elementary school back in the United States. And I was sitting in my room that like, you know, it's like kind of a loft area and ah, there's a hallway that leads down to a bedroom and I would be, you know, looking at a TV or something. And the hallway is to my left and I can see in the hallway, there's somebody standing in the hallway. And, and as I, as I see him there, I'm not directly looking at them. Someone's standing in the hallway, but he's, I'm not, I'm not straight up looking at him. I turn my head and it has gone, but that's, that's consistent throughout the times I lived at that house. I moved around a lot, but that house was a specific to that. Hallways have always been kind of an issue for me, a when I'm in that for a while, No, not, not at that age. I was more thinking like it was nothing and that's, that's kind of the crazy bit. Is that up until maybe I was 17, 18, maybe even like mostly 17. I think I thought that I was completely, you know, levelheaded completely, I guess, like mentally normal and that nothing that I was experiencing, anyone else had also like not experienced. So, you know, I didn't think much of it. These things didn't really bother me to a level where I would think, Hey, maybe something's up. I w I can remember similar instances of that just happening in that still, you know, kind of occurred to today. Like, you know, just those kinds of visual things, where if I'm kind of idle or in the still space, then things will start to kind of happen into a way where like, but it's not, it's not scary, but it's not, it's not like, you know what, I feel like other people with wanting to be comfortable. Yeah, exactly comfortable. And then I had a couple of instances when I was a bit older where I had the it's the auditory stuff that really gets to me because the visual stuff or the visual stuff is normal for me. Cause it's happened for so long. Like I said, since I was, you know, a kid that I'm just kind of used to, it kind of numb to it. It doesn't bother me so much that when I see it, I can just be like, okay, Hey, like that, it's not like it didn't happen because it did happen, but it's not going to hurt me. I'm not going to die or anything like that. But then this auditory stuff, the first instance of that, I was around 1514. And I can't remember what is said ever when those things do happen, it's nothing nice. But the last thing I remember doing, as you know, I, I get up at about four in the morning and I go to my mother's room and I'm just like, I don't know what's going on. And that was the first, that was the first instance of like a hospitalization, but there was a voluntary one. It wasn't, I've never been like in voluntarily hospitalized. And also I have been listening to your show a little bit and the common theme I've heard with some of these psychosis. Cause that's what it was for me when I was that young as I was just a, it was a psychosis. And then the common theme I've heard is that there's like some sort of drugs involved or hallucinogens involved or something like that. I haven't listened to all your episodes, but the first few that I've heard, that's been a common theme. And that does occur with me to learn a bit later. But this one, the first one, it was just completely like just something like snapped, you know? And I ended up going to a hospital, but they didn't really take me seriously with the symptoms I was describing. You know, I tell them like, Hey, this stuff is bothering me, these hallucinations, these visual cues, these auditory things. And they're just like, you have depression, here's a bottle of, you know, Prozac. I think that's what they gave me was Prozac. Yeah. I was going to say, it's not you, can't, it's a hard thing to prove, you know, somebody it's like, you have to like plug somebodies consciousness into your own so that they can experience what you're going through. Yeah. And then, you know, they gave me anxiety medication to give to me, I don't know, what's, The the pharmaceutical term, but in the brand name was cool on a pin. I think it's a clonazepam or something really kind of intense benzo. And they just give me a bit like, you know, two months supply of it in one bottle and they say, Hey man, take that when you feel like you need it, I'm 14 at this point. And I'm like, okay, these things, they, they, they make me feel normal, like in a way that I'm not freaking out about the things that I'm stressed out, you know, I'm in high school, I'm in a row doing extracurriculars. I'm trying to graduate. I'm not doing so well, cause I'm hallucinating all the time. And so I ended up taking these, you know, benzos for a really long time. And that was not a good idea. Like, I don't know what prescribing doctor allowed me to do that. Like they should not have given me all that because that stuff's not easy to come off of when you take it for a really long time. And so I kinda, I kinda I'm a little bitter about that, but you know, anyway as time passes, I kind of get when used to it, but then I moved to Finland in 2016. Yeah. Right after high school, I had graduated from a school in Denver and then I moved to Finland in 2016 and I had a, you know, the same issues because, you know, they gave me antidepressants and benzos and I'm just like, this is not how I should be treated. And I moved here. I ended up going through, they're a healthcare system and I do another voluntary hospitalization just to see if I can get some better, better help. And they ended up giving me a diagnosis of bipolar disorder. And that was kind of the start of getting me to Schizoaffective. Because again, they're not really taking me so seriously with the hallucinations in Finland I've noticed everything, mental health wise, they they're trying to treat the depression. That's a big issue here. And you go in with, you know, any, any sort of psychotic symptom, any sort of a non, even a non psychotic symptom. If it's a mental health related than you must have depression and you must be, he must be drinking a lot too, because you know, again, like he, like you're saying, it's like a, it's a stereotype, you know, it's, it's a stereotype, you know, based in reality here because you know, people have that issue, but it's not, it's not exactly what I'm dealing with. I have not been one to be like depressed very much. So, you know, they're not taking me seriously with the hallucinations, but they get me on a sodium valproate rate. And that helps a lot with my mood. And I've been taking that, you know, for the last four years. And it's been wonderful. Like, I, I know that there's a, some camps that will, you know, describe like, you know, don't take medication and all that, but you know, there are some, there are, you know, it's not, it's not for everybody and all that I understand, but you know, for me, this thing works a lot. A bit of, a bit of a touchy subject, but you know, it's, you know, for me it works and I couldn't, it's hard to recommend like medication for anyone because you can't tell what people are going through. And he can't tell what works with people. And I'm just not one who gets side effects really ever. So it's always been all positive for me to get this, but then I had, I did have a, another psychosis and this one was like a cannabis induced. I think that was in 2017. That was a really, really, really, really bad one, like complete loss of reality and all that. And that was another, that was another a hospitalization, but it was only for one day because they figured, Hey, you, you smoke too much. And then, you know, you just lost it. So don't do that anymore to go home. And that was a real big, like turning point in my life psychologically because, you know, I have been smoking for a long time and I just stopped like that day. And it's been a really good for me to be sober. And I've always thought that, you know, if I, if I can't tell if I can, you know, still have the symptoms and be sober, then I know I'm not faking it. But like, I've always thought that I, I, I it's always been that creeping thing in the back of your head, like, Hey, am I faking it? Is it the drug's? Is that right? Yeah. But, you know, It is not good, especially because like a venue, if you don't take yourself seriously, no one else will, and it's already difficult enough to get someone to take you seriously in most healthcare systems that I've found. But when I, I was in, I was in a Finland for about a year and a half, sorry. And I moved back to the States for about a year, just, you know, to work and stuff and get some money in whatever. And I went back to a psychiatrist and I told them about my hallucinations and I really kind of emphasized that then. And they said, it sounds like Schizoaffective, it doesn't sound like you're a bipolar. And so I finally, I finally got my diagnosis there and that was 20, either 2018 to 2019. And that was, that was like, you know, a big like, Whoa, finally, you know, I'm, I, I get it now. Like I look because the end, it was funny because when I was about 14, I asked my, my psychiatrist. I was like, are you sure I'm depressed? Are you sure it's a schizophrenia disorder? Like I remember saying this in her office to her. And she says, no, no, no, you're just anxious. And when I told that story to my psychiatrist in 2019, and she said, well, of course you were anxious, you were hallucinating. You know, it makes it makes sense. And it, it just really gratifying, you know, to be taken seriously in such a way that, you know, I can get that kind of, that kind of explanation to, as what's going on. Yeah, a bit a, just in addition, you know, the what's that brand name a for a bill of Abilify. Yeah. They just gave me that I quite a high dose for me. I haven't, I have taken it in the past, but only at like, you know, two and a half milligrams or something, but now it's like quite high. So, but again, like I've had, I've heard really bad side effects about those. Like, I've read about really bad side effects there, like weight gain and all that stuff. And I just don't really get it. So I'm, you know, I'm, I feel good. You know, I'm really in a good place mentally right now. I feel like consistent consistently. Like I've had the hallucinations and the, you know, some sort of anxieties about this stuff, but it's been about the same since I was, you know, 10, so I I'm quite used to it, but otherwise I'm feeling quite fine. Yeah. I mean, they're, there is definitely, you know, some sort of things to think about for me. Like whether or not if that person, you know, that just past me is actually like following me, but they keep following me from like, you know, walking around the block twice as fast as me going home. And they're just like keeping an eye on me or if there's a, you know, like I have a real problem with staring, I feel like everyone is staring. Like I have that. Yeah. It's been a long time, you know, to kind of experience this stuff. It's always, it's just been, this is the only time it's been fine. Like 20, 20, it's been a hard year for a lot of people, like a very hard year for a lot of people. But to me and my family, its been like one of our, one of our best years, you know, mental health wise, financially, you know, stability, home wise, all that stuff. Like we're good. It's it's, it's just like, it's kind of interesting. Cause a lot of people who would think that like, Oh you have a schizophrenia disorder. You're not going to make it. Like you have like this death sentence. That's what I thought that like, you know, Oh, I got diagnosed Schizoaffective. Now I'm going to be on disability. I'm going to be, I'm going to be like, you know, un-useful to myself and to my household and stuff. But it's like, it's not true. Like you can do like, you know, and get through in some ways, Right now. I'm just waiting for this language school to start back up again because you know, with the whole, a Corona thing going around at that got put on hold, it's just a bit, it was a, it was online classes and then it stopped. And then, you know, now it's like, I have a meeting again to go back and then, you know, January is coming up. January is when all people apply to school. So I'm just going to get an a, I'm trying to get into this one school I applied to last year, but missed by a margin for, you know, forestry. I really like the woods. I really like, yeah. The outdoors stuff. I collect knives. I, you know, do all that Yeah, exactly. Like the whole, the whole like we, me and my family were just out in the woods today now near a Lake boat. And I don't know if you ever heard of that band, children of Bodom or that tragedy, the children of Bodom, but we are out there. It's a really pretty place really, you know, in the deep woodsy kind of deal. But you know, the whole dream is to have a house in Lapland and do The do the tours and did the expedition guiding and all that stuff in the winter. Yeah. I've only been asked like, Hey, you're not going to kill us in our sleep. Like once. So that, that was the worst. But you know, my friends, my friends from the States I've always been like, they kind of knew, so they weren't like tripping about it or anything when that happened. But also my circles are really small and I moved around a lot, like he said, so there's not a whole bunch of people who you no, no. And I need to know and like care that much. Like so, but you know, with my family, you know, it's all very tight. They don't, they don't mind at all. No, I don't think so. I would, I would, I would say like, you know, it's not, if you're like, like the, the hardest thing for me was just like getting newly diagnosed and, you know, I would just say for someone who is newly diagnosed, if that's a scary thing for you and that you're feeling kind of down about it, it's not, you've, you've, you've had it, you know, it's not like you just got diagnosed and now you have it. So you can, you can, you're still, you're still, you, you know, you're still okay. Like, you know, to be, to be living and stuff. So I just, I just think that, you know, some words of encouragement better stated than me could, would be. Yeah. I would say. So if you're, if you're getting diagnosed, you're already there, you know, you're in the office. It'll it's all good. It'll be there. Music all right. Well, I'm a total metal head, but if, if I would be remiss not to plug my friend's band, he is the hot babe rubbers on Spotify. So yeah, definitely check that out. It's it's a, you know, punk rock kind of stuff. Real good. Yeah, no problem. <inaudible>.Good. Thank you so much for having me Sure. Well, I started having symptoms when I was pretty young as a child, I would see things and hear things, but I live with my grandparents and my grandmother kind of explained it away as either my imagination or the ghost that lives in her house. She had a cute little name for him. So anytime. Yeah. Anything odd thing, she kind of called me down with. Oh, it's just Henry it's. Okay. So I know it sounds really silly, but it actually did help as a child cause you're like, okay, this is okay. So I could be a little less scared, but you know, it was not quite as intense as it got as I started getting older. Yeah. I would see like shadow people is the best way to describe it. And you know, I look out my window and someone would be waving at me and I, you know, hear whispers. So, you know, grandma, it was easy for grandma to say, Oh, that's a ghost. I mean, yeah. Anytime something weird happens. Oh yeah. Sorry. So as I got older, obviously things got a little more intense, but unfortunately the background I come from is a bit old fashioned conservative kind of background. So you just pretend everything's fine all the time. So no matter what's happening to you, everything's fine. Which is why, you know, we're having this very serious conversation and I'll still like laugh from time to time because that's just how my family deals with things. Everything's fine. Wonderful. People are having a grand old time at funerals, which I've always thought is kind of messed up. But yeah. So when it got to the point as a teenager, but it was hospitalized because I did attempt suicide unsuccessfully obviously, but it's okay. But again, that was another thing that was just kind of brushed away. Like, Oh, it was just a momentary thing. Don't worry about it. My, they didn't really want to do anything psychological because it wasn't that it was just, I was a teenager, you know, that's and that was kind of their reasoning. So I to get around, you know, the lack of that kind of stuff, I just ended up trying to busy myself, if that makes sense. Like, you know, I would have a, like three screens on my computer going and then a video game going at the same time and I'd have headphones listening to music and talking to friends all at the same time, which I guess kind of helped develop skills of multi-tasking, but it was just kind of a way to try and like keep myself distracted from what I was hearing and seeing. And then I got out of there as soon as I graduated high school, I moved up to Michigan. I was not, I was originally from more of a Southern area and I moved up to Michigan, had a friend here. So I came here and unfortunately I, instead of seeking help, like thrill normal way, I just became a bit of a party girl and just drank a lot with, I was a weight just so that I would just drink it. So a ways, I think it's common for people in our situation to just kind of be like, Oh, I can take care of this. I'll just, self-medicate spoiler alert. That's not if for any younger people listening, that's not the answer. It wasn't until I eventually stopped that lifestyle. I met a quite wonderful person. Who's now my husband, who's very supportive. And the only time I drink now is socially with my sister-in-law and that's like, you know, a glass of something not, but yeah, he's pretty cool, I guess, but it wasn't. And so up here we have, we're a bit of a misfit group of friends that I have in the, we have two people who are a bit older than us. They're about 10 years older than I am a and we call ourselves a little, like we're a little family because we all kind of have like, I have problems with my family. I don't really talk to them as much. And when I do, we don't get along. So my quote, unquote, parents up here recognize something has been wrong. Like they could kind of tell. And so they kind of was like, okay, I think we should talk about this. And I think we should see if someone and I was very against it. Cause again, I pretend like everything's wrong. Everything's funny. I'll just hide everything with humor. But they were able to kind of see past that. It'd be like, no, you're going, we're going to take you somewhere. And I will the quote unquote data of our group. He was like, I will go with you. So for my first, quite a few sessions, he went with me and that's where everything kind of gave out. And I got the diagnosis that I have now. And that was a couple of years ago. So It was I a sh I did another terrible joke. I say I'm on a cocktail, but that cocktail took a quite a long time to iron out. And I know that during that time there was some issues. I'm a very, again, fortunate for my friends who are very understanding of that when I'm like, I can't right now, I'm sorry. Or they, the check out and be like, Hey, you haven't said anything in a while. What's going on. And I also, my work is very understanding of mental issues. My boss has a daughter who's in a similar situation. So when I'm like, I'm going into the server room, I just need to do this. It was okay for me to do that. And not everyone has that, which is terrible, but it took a lot of time to get the medications. And for the most part they're pretty good. Now sometimes have to adjust a little bit, but there was a, something, there was a pill I was on called Geodon and that messed me up. I know it's a good for a lot of people, but it was a really dark, dark time where I tend to self harm, unfortunately, which I have it in a while, but Geodon brought me back to that space and, and, you know, it's pretty embarrassing. I would say for it felt, well, I shouldn't say it is. It's not, but it felt embarrassing for a woman of my age to have to have her husband hide things from her. So she wouldn't cut herself. So. I work at it. So like a system is administrator. No, I I've had a couple of breaks. I, I didn't get into it until a little later than probably most I was in my mid twenties, but like my early twenties, I just kind of did whatever, you know, a and I did have a break after the job. I had a previous to, this was not the best environment not to get on a soapbox or anything, but as a woman in it, sometimes it's not the easiest position to be in over here and my neck of the woods. So I was in a place that was, it kind of felt like it was ran by frat boy, like tossing around footballs and things like that. And as in my voice was very unheard in that kind of environment, because I was the only woman who worked there. So that was a pro I got, go ahead. Yeah. And I think that actually helped food. I shouldn't say it helps me my condition, but I think it does because after the fact I'm able to go back and be like, okay, here's why you were wrong in your mind. Like, or the voices are wrong. Let's think about this. And that's something my therapist and I have worked with a lot is trying to use the rational part of my brain when the unrest funnel part is taking over and kind of beating me down. Yeah. That's exactly kind of what my therapist said is like, okay, try and find those holes with and go from there. I hear a variety of voices, but they're all pretty negative depending on the situation, but I'm in a row. I have a lot of anxiety about the people who are important to me. I had such a weird upbringing of being kind of a pass around child. And like, I never really saw my dad and those kinds of things. So I have a lot of anxiety about that. So I have, you know, it's very much a constant battle of having to deal with like, tenors of voices telling you that you're worthless and none of your friends actually like you, and they only really hang out with you because of your husband, that kind of thing, even though clearly that's not true. Cause otherwise, why would they take you to get there? I go back and forth on that to be perfectly honest with you. Like, I haven't, I've, I'm someone who wants to know the answer to everything, because I think that's also a part of our logical it brains is why is this broken? I'm going to find out, I don't care if it doesn't need fix, I'm going to figure it out. Anyway, the surface I've been using 10 years, I'm still going to fix it. But yeah, like I, I also have a lot of, you know, anxiety and there is some PTSD from some incidents in my younger days. So that kind of also plays in, like, I have a pretty irrational fear of tall men that I have a very good friend who is a tall man. And even though I've known him for years, he's very wonderful when I'm first around him again, after like not seeing him for a couple of days, it I'm, I'm terrified. And I hide behind are a quote-unquote dad, because I'm, the voices are just so loud and screaming, like he's going to hurt you. And he's going to do all these things to you. Oh my God, what are you doing? You stupid tart, get out of here. That's the kind of things that like scream in my head. So that kind of also like whatever the situation is, is how if I'm working, it's because, you know, I am not good enough for this job, or you're just a girl. You shouldn't be doing that. Which, you know, obviously it's, it's, whatever my situation is, is how they're going to attack me I do. I don't read it as much as I used to, but I do really enjoy books and I played a lot, I guess I feel like a lot of RPGs, which are kind of like books. Yeah. I mean, Yeah. This is kind of sad. I, I don't watch a ton of movies because I can't sit still very well without like actively doing something. Cause that's when things I feel get loud. So I don't watch a lot of films. I had, I mean, I watched Donnie Darko. That was pretty good. But no movie when it comes to, I don't have the ability to sit and watch. So I don't. I'm sorry. <inaudible> It might be, I've never been diagnosed with that or anything, but it's just, if I, if I sit and do nothing, I know it's going to get loud. I won't be able to distract myself cause I still use distraction as a mechanism to ignore like the voices and the things I see out of the corner of my eyes and those kinds of things. It's not nearly as bad since I've been on medication. I just have, it normally starts pretty low unless something gets to me and ramps me up and, or like I encounter something I'm afraid of, or I get an idea in my head and then it just kind of like, I try to think of a better word other than catamari, because that's a, no, one's gonna know what that means, but like, you know, it grows like you're like, okay, I have this idea in my head and now I can get a focus on it and everything's going to get bigger and bigger and louder and louder until I can sort through it and be like, no you're being irrational. I think it's insanely fascinating. That's so cool to think about like how this, I don't even know if I want to use this word, but I I'm terrible with words. I do apologize. I'm gonna say anomaly, like is manifested here versus in other cultures, like, that's so neat to think about like, okay, this is how it affects me and how it affects someone on the other side of the world is really kind of, I do a I and I, I agree with you. I there's, there's something else there, but admittedly, I don't know what that is. And that's also can be kind of frustrating cause you're like, what else could it be? Especially like seeing it, how it affects those and more spiritual countries, like what is that mean kind of thing. So, you know what I mean? Yeah, you kind of like, Oh, this is a day. Like, you kind of you'll think about it. Like, you know, you leave work and there's a problem with bringing the back of their head. You make dinner and you take a shower and then you're like slamming your head down in the soap. Like, I know what this, So I would say yeah, back home. Yes. Back where by families from, again, it's not something I talk about very much, but I did try to broach the subject with my mother and it was a disaster. She's like, you're being silly. You're being dramatic. This is a thing, you know? So I, I wouldn't say, I'd say I'm pretty protected from the particular group of friends that I have since they're so very, they're wonderful. Like they're very understanding and you can say, I'm not all right. And they'll be like, okay, let's not, we'll figure it out. So I'm very, very fortunate in that way. And in my younger days, I don't remember much from my early twenties because I just was blitzed out of my mind so I could have been, but it's mostly, it's mostly in that Southern area where there's the, the pretenses. You have to live it by. I guess as an older person kind of looking back, what do you think would be, let me ask you this question. I was already like put her down and you, but maybe you could help me with this answer. What kind of resources do you think would be best for kids in situations? Kind of like my own, where there's nowhere to reach out to 'cause everyone has the mask, like, how do you think, especially, well, nowadays you have the internet too. So like what resources would you recommend for younger listeners who might not know where to turn to for help? Because they can't tell their parents, The two separate. It's a very wonderful, Yeah. I think that's even good for like some of us who are diagnosed older, like there's communities online and people are so accepting and want to help each other out. So it's really nice that in this day and age, people can get together and do that. I think that makes a huge difference so that others don't follow in some of the footsteps that us older generation who did not have those at an early age kind of fell into, So I speak a second language. I speak Japanese. My grandfather was stationed over there. So growing up, he thought it was important for children to have a second language. And he's like, this is the one I know this is what I'm going to teach you. So I listened to a lot of Jay rock to help keep my language skills up. Cause I don't have a lot of people to talk to you in Japanese. So I really enjoy that kind of stuff. And it also has the occupation of my mind, where I have to sit there and really listen and really like, okay, translate it kind of on the spot. Which is just to find out how people get. So, yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you. And thank you for doing this. <inaudible>.I'm doing pretty good, actually. Thank you for asking. Okay. Yeah, so with me, I, I was actually first started having problems as a child. My very first diagnosis was when I was eight years old, just because every, like I had issues with my emotions, I would have these mood swings and everyone noticed, but may I, I was completely oblivious because I was under the impression, you know, this is how everyone was. I I, at that age, I really just kind of understand that I was different. So yeah, so I had problems in school and then the school got my parents involved, my parents. So at that time we actually lived in Florida and Florida's kind of one of those States, like, especially in the nineties where mental health issues were not taken seriously. So my parents sort of didn't take it seriously. They actually were telling me, you know, we think of this as just your way of having an excuse to misbehave. So that kind of characterized how I viewed my mental illness up until honestly I was an adult. Like I was 25 before I actually went to get help for myself. And by that point I was experiencing hallucinations and, you know, I would, I would hear things. I was actually listening to your podcast with Jen. She said she saw a shadow people and that's actually exactly what I had been seeing in my, in my adult years. If I, as a child, you, you're kind of having like some sort of bipolar symptoms when you were younger. You know, man, I mean, a lot of kids do have mood swings. Absolutely. You know, that's, that's very nice. A lot of kids are quite like that, I think, but can I say fine? So maybe it was quite extreme. So you have problems in school and the mental health was not taken. Yeah. Mental health has, has kind of grown over years. The awareness of it, you know, it's kind of my, one of the reasons that I do this podcast is because schizophrenia is still in the shadows. So Schizoaffective that kind of in the shadows, whereas it's kind of like the anxiety and depression, which has gotten a lot of press, which is fine, but you know, we, we, we need awareness for all the conditions, not just anxiety and depression. So then you had hallucination, these were visual hallucinations. Did you have any auditory hallucinations? Yeah. And that actually is a problem that still persists. In fact, I literally yesterday I just started a new anti-psychotic the auditory hallucinations I have because I have a history with, by parents where they were very, they just like talk down to me a lot. They insulted me a lot and my mind sort of plays that on repeat. And so I get hallucinations like that, but for me, it's a really bad because like, I don't hear them. The, I hear a specific voice and it's actually someone who I was engaged to years ago and who died. So it's like being haunted by this ghost set for some reason is just constantly insulting me and trying to tell me to kill myself, things like that. How long has this been going on? Cool. So the hallucinations started when I was, I would say 22, I believe. How does it make you feel Eric? Well, I just, it, it really destroys your self confidence. Like especially if the person, like, I recognize that voice, I'll never forget it. She was not just my fiance, but my best friend. So it's like, you know, if you're someone who you loved just came back to you every once in a while to tell you you're a piece of shit, you know? I mean, you just can't have self-confidence with that happening. Yeah. Because I kind of want people to understand how it feels like to have these conditions, you know, did you have any other symptoms apart from the hallucinations? So I, I do. I have actually something I've had since I was a kid, I've actually kind of been able to deal with it as an adult was I would have delusions that people could hear my thoughts. I, you know, I was really, eh, you know, part of that does come from, you know, like my upbringing with my parents. Like if I had a journal, I, I don't keep journals anymore because as a child, if I had a journal, they didn't like what they saw my journal they'd beat me for it. And then just sometimes people would re act towards me, certain ways that I wouldn't understand and less, you know, they could see like some of the dark thoughts that were in my head. And I started to think that baby people mistreated me because they knew what I was thinking. You know, they knew that there's something going wrong with me Is that delusion still possess persist. Now It, it does. But it's something I've been able to cope with. I've actually developed the skills to really deal with it and understand that, you know, I do have a private internal life. Okay. Fine. I mean, so tell us how, what sort of emotions go for you? When would those delusions where their worst? What, tell us how that felt like I it's, you know, I feel so paranoid, you know, if you think you can't think things, you, you just, you try not, you try to just put everything out of your head. Don't think anything or, or just try and think, you know, about like happy things, like positive things, like, think about compliments about all the people around you, because they, if they can hear you, I mean, they're not going to fault you for that. Right. Yeah. Sorry, carry on. And just not being able to trust people, because you don't know it it's like, if you don't know, like what people know about you, I guess it's very hard to trust what they think of you. Yeah. Kind of, I kind of feel that a lot of folks with these conditions just want to be honest. I don't know. They just want to tell the truth because they, they want the truth from people they talk to, you know, and, and you know, and that in a way that, that's a good thing really, because yeah. Okay. So are you your medication, right? You're an ax psychotic, so Correct. I'm a anti-psychotic I had just started. And of course I'm on lithium for the mood swings to stabilize. Yeah. Because you've got bipolar type Schizoaffective. So Schizoaffective, it's generally a combination of schizophrenia symptoms and bipolar symptoms. So that means you get the psychosis hallucinations and the mood swings. So I, I want to know also it's how does the medication affect you? Well, this new anti-psychotic is called Rick salty one. I'm sort of noticing just like a, a very common side effect with a lot of atypical. Anti-psychotics where you get, like, you know, you get stomach aches, stomach cramps, stuff like that. It was a little harder to sleep last night. That's actually kind of why, like I wanted to get up earlier for this, but you know, it just happens that way sometimes. Yeah. I wanted to ask about your sleeping patterns. Do you feel that is, how do you feel that it's affected by the medication? I mean, what, what was the reasons that you changed your medication, but was it because of the side effects or the efficacy of it? It was actually both. So I was on Risperdol and I've actually posted this, but before that, how it just makes me so anxious, but it also really wasn't doing anything for me. I actually, so I, I had I've I have been hospitalized multiple times throughout my life and I basically, they gave me Risperdol and I, when I was in the hospital last year, like literally a year ago, and I just, I hated the place I was in so much, there was so much violence around me. There was so much conflict. It was, it was a scary place to be. It's, it's actually a pretty notorious hospital in my area. So I'm just like, you know what Risperdol is great. I want to get out of here. Let's go. I'm cure. No voices, never heard anything. Burka let's go, you know? Okay, fine. I mean, you know, I, I think also the life of someone with this condition, like you said, you've been hospitalized multiple times. It's difficult to find that stability, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. And also kind of what helps with making a person stable is a good support network and also support from the state as well. I mean, how you feel about the support that you're getting? So it's, it's like a mixed bag. I have a wonderful partner who is 100% support. I couldn't ask for a better person to be with me, you know? And the, my family, I do have as supports, but they're, they have, like, there's only so much they can relate to because they kind of have a difficulty understanding, like some of the problems that I Have, like, you know, if I met, like, I I've been manic for the past few weeks and I'm like, I've probably average maybe at most hour asleep at night for the past few weeks. And they, they don't like when I'm like sleeping all day, it's like, I can't sleep. I literally can't. I try, I meditate, you know, I drink camomile tea. I, you know, I wind down, I do, I do all of these, like these rituals to try and help me sleep. And it's just, the illness just does not care. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's cause you know, like for me, I guess the two major side effects for any psychotics is the drowsiness and also the weight gain. Have you noticed anything about the weight gain? Is that something that has affected you? So I like yes and no. Well, yeah. I I've gained a lot of weight in the past, like four years in the past four years I've gained a hundred pounds, but it's, it's hard to say that it's because of the anti-psychotics because I'm also eating a lot and drinking a lot of like soda and stuff to cope. Cause I don't really have that healthy of coping skills. Okay. So Eric, what I want to ask you is do you work or how is your day-to-day life at the present? Yeah, so daily I, my primary occupations are, I, I don't like work in the terms of like, I don't have a job employed with someone else currently get a disability for social security and I do other things. Like I donate plasma for money and, but I'm also, I've worked go to school full time and I take care of my daughter. Okay. Fine. Yeah. Okay. Fine. So are you going to school to look for work or, or was there a reason because of the illness that you find you feel that work is difficult? Can you tell me the barriers to work for someone in your position? Oh, absolutely. Cause this is something also that I think my family has a little bit of trouble understanding too is so when you don't have a degree, you pretty much working in customer service or food service jobs in my area, or you, you know, you're doing sales, but these are all things that require, you know, interacting with people a lot. And for me, like I, I can do it like when I'm stable, I'm good. Like I'm really good. I do very well in these jobs. I've worked sales for years, you know, I, cause I, I did work for most of my life, but you know, when I start to get psychotic, it's like, people don't want to go to a cash register to them talking to someone who's not there. Nobody wants to talk to that person, you know, or same with sales, you know, nobody wants to go to a sales meeting to have them to have me like quietly sitting there like a scared squirrel, afraid to say anything to them. And if this affected you as a person, you're kind of, you're, you're sort of retina Western sense, you think, well, you know, I've seen it, what happens before? And I just don't want to go through this again. I mean, how, tell me about, Yeah, there is definite trepidation with rejoining the workforce for me, I think. And essentially this is what I find the value of school in because you know, if I'm confident in something, even if I like, even if I feel out of place or even if I feel scared, when I'm confident in my ability to do something, it's just, it's it's night and day, you know, I, I can still hold my own and not, you know, buckle, but like if I'm like, if I'm not confident in my ability to do something, like if I don't feel like it really sell to a person because I'm like out of my head, then it's just, you know, to me it feels like climbing up a mountain. It's just, it's so hard for me to actually approach that situation with it, you know, saying, you know, I can do it. Yeah. I think a genuine Jen genuine confidence in your ability to do a task is so important for people with mental health problems because we find it very difficult to be the fake confidence, you know, because where we just we'll just be who we are. And so I think genuine confidence in ability task is so important. Yeah. I agree with you. Yeah. Okay. Okay, Eric. Yeah. So let me ask you some more questions. I'll call this the questions here. Do you read any books? I mean, what sort of books do you like? Yeah. I love books ever since I was a child. I was constantly reading. I mean, you know, right now I'm doing a lot of reading of textbooks, but you know, for leisure, I, I like, like I was really into a song of ice and fire, the, you know, the game of Thrones book series and also like, Does it help you? Does it help you reading? Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Anything that can distract me, you know, a good story. If it can distract me, will like it, it's very therapeutic and honestly, I, I feel it's a solid coping skill. Yeah. And, and what about movies? Do you like to watch movies? Yeah, so I'm really into horror movies, well horror movies and comedy. So I like that combination, you know? Yeah. So, you know, I watched those with, you know, with my partner watch with our daughter. It's, it's fun and that's again, you know, that's coping for me. That's how I keep myself safe. I mean, what, what would you do? How do you feel people, people sort of understand skitzo effective schizophrenia. How do you feel people understand that, you know, just regular people? Well, I mean, just from my perception of, I look at obviously social media and, you know, popular, popular media, like movies and stuff for, to kind of get an understanding of how people at large view things. And if you go look at Hollywood movies, you know, schizophrenia is kind of like, you know, people think it's like, you go to Selma, you know, adventure in your head, you know? Yeah, Yeah, yeah. Everything's, everything's beautiful, you know, kind of, but a little bit scary. Yeah. I know you, me, I know you made films like sucker punch and, and shutter Island, those sorts of films, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. And I like the movies, you know, I don't, I don't dislike the movies because of that, but I think like it's hard for people. Like they try to put things in a way people can relate or at least understand and that, you know, I mean, that's a problem with any type of scientific endeavor, people like pop side or the actual science, because it's easier for them to digest. Nobody can really sit there and go through the whole DSM and be like, Oh, this is what all these disorders mean. You know, they just don't have time for that. I mean, these conditions are kind of lifelong, I guess that's one part of the severity of it. I mean, how, how do you feel about that? Do you, do you, I mean, cause like for me, I don't really think about it mean what is your take on that? Yeah. Well, I mean, for years, like I didn't get treatment because I never thought of like myself as having a problem. So, and like, you know, w when, when you don't understand, you have a problem, like, you don't think of it as anything. Like, it doesn't even occur to you that there's an issue. So you're just like everyone else. But like when you look at it from the lens I have now, I try not to think, you know, I have a lifelong disease. I think I have lifelong habits. I need to develop because I'm always going to be in recovery. Yeah. Okay. Do you feel you've experienced discrimination before? Yeah, I mean, so it's in a way, but I guess, like, I don't really know what I expected people to do. And similar situations I put them, like, you know, I, I have to call out a lot when I had the call a lot when I worked a job in a, like a disc replication factory, like 10 years ago. So I got fired and I mean, that's like nowadays with the laugh Elma and FMLA and all of that, and the States, like they can't really do that. So, you know, from the lens of now that would seem like discrimination, but back then we didn't have those roles and I couldn't have expected anything else. So it's, but I mean, actually, you know, probably a more poignant example is I have in school when I was a child, because there were some really kind of damaging experiences. I have like one time for awhile, the teacher, like if I started to act out, like if I was manic and like I was talking a lot, you know, very jittery, they put me in like the broom closet, because in, you know, those schools back then they had closets. They, they put you in the closet as a punishment. You have to do your work there. I mean, do you think you suffer from self stigma where the stigma is, how we're brought up with the condition? Because I think this is quite a common thing where we, where we kind of like attack ourselves, you know, with our, come on, we can do this, we can do that. You know, it's all in my head. Do you pick me? You suffer from self stigma. I definitely have. I, I'm not sure. I think I have a good perspective now, but growing up, you know, my parents were saying, you're only D you're only doing this to misbehave and excuse to misbehave. And like, that's what I believed. I actually believed for the longest time. There's nothing wrong with me. I'm just choosing to be bad. And it's a difficult mindset to get rid of if you grew up with that, I guess, you know? Right. What about bullying? Have you been maybe as a child, possibly you were, but as an adult, have you faced adult bully? You know, I C I don't like this. Think of it as, because from my background, my dad has always tried to like, tell me, you know, it doesn't matter what people say about you, if you stand up for yourself, you know? So like, if I say, you know, people have like, always like made fun of me for like, you know, I have, I have ticks and stuff like that, where I'll just get in my head and I'll be twitching and things like that. You know, people make fun of you for stuff. If you have weird little idiosyncrasies, like even people like your boss, like your manager will like bust your balls over that. So, I mean, in a way, but I don't like to think of it cause like, as blink cause you know, I, I did tell them off, like I would get mad if people got too aggressive with or, you know, so it's not like I just was a victim. I did try to stand up for myself when I could. Yeah. I guess, I guess what I think, I mean, you know, I'm sure you, you, you can, you're a strong person, but at the issue is, is that sometimes we are vulnerable and you know, and there's nothing we can do about it. You know, it's just, it's just, maybe it's a bad day and we're not able to portray that public face that we all have and you know, so it can be difficult sometimes I think. Oh, I, I definitely agree. Yeah. I mean, Eric, what would you, how would you like the public to change? How would you like to, well, to change, to acknowledge your condition? Well, honestly, it's not even just like my conditioner, any mental illness. I think there's a key, a way that the world, our society needs to change and that's to just like chill the fuck out, you know, you know, like you don't have to be on someone's case. Like you don't have to like see something that like seems off to you and instantly insults someone over it just like move on. It's you, it doesn't have to be your business, you know, just stop going out of your way to make other people miserable, miserable. Like, we're all miserable because of other things in our world are, you know, we were born to a world of scarcity, things suck for a lot of people and we don't need to make it worse for each other. Yeah. I think, I think there are a lot of people talk about narcissists and they cause a lot of problems. It's difficult to pigeonhole people like that. I think it's probably sort of narcissistic behavior in some folk. Do you know what I mean? It's not, I don't think anybody I saw black and white, is it, but yet there are some people who can be cruel and unkind and, and it doesn't help society. Like you say, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Just, just wanted to add just in general. I, you know, just all of us, I think everyone can benefit just focusing more on improving ourselves over, bringing down others, you know? Yeah. I mean, yeah, that, I mean, to me, when you say those sorts of things, I tend to think we need to be kind of more spiritual rather than, you know, material capitalistic, all this sort of thing, but more spiritual where we, where we feel sort of more compassion to our fellow man, to a fellow woman, a compassion for nature, a compassion for all living things. You know, I think I, you know, I think that's kind of, that's what I think when you talk about this, all things. Right. And it's difficult because it's, it's not like religion, you know, where, where they're just trying to teach you how not to go to hell, but spirituality really about just being more compassionate to folk. I think it's important. Yeah. No, I, I agree with you 100% there. Yeah. I, I definitely, I feel like, cause w when I was young, down in Florida, like, it's, there's a lot of like religion. I was kind of sucked into that because that's just what's around. And I was, I was pretty devout Christian as a kid, but I, I started to realize, I wasn't, I didn't care so much about the Christian churches. I was just extremely respectful or I had just had a lot of respect for Jesus Christ and like his philosophy. I didn't care about the old Testament. I just liked Jesus. And the way he thought of how you should treat people. Yeah. I w I had these comics, I think when I was in hospital this long time ago now, but it's over 15 years ago, maybe longer than that, but I had these comics of Jesus Christ his life, and that was so much more useful for me than any, any religious education lesson or any Bible, because it just, Jesus was like a really cool guy. And like, if there was like an authority figure, he would point out it was a bit like soccer. So Socrates from ancient Greece, you would point out the, what they were doing wrong. He was like, kind of like a rebel to authority, which is, which is really cool. And you don't really hear so much about it, I think. Yeah. Okay. Eric, I think we're about to wrap this up. I just, I just got two more questions for you. The first question is I want you to speak about anything, which I haven't asked you so far. If there's anything you would like to talk about, please do Well. So one thing I, I struggle with and, you know, especially when you get psychotic or you get manic and you're, you're experiencing these things at the same time, tend to get very irritable. One thing everyone should really try to understand is even if you're, you know, extremely mentally ill do everything you can just to be, even if it's the hardest thing you can do, just to be kind to the people around you, the people that are in your support network, even if they're not perfect, even if, sometimes they can't be there for you, just, you know, give them a smile and tell them you appreciate them. You know, even if you're in your darkest moment, it's going to make you feel better. If you just appreciate someone who's been there for you. So I'm extremely eclectic. So, you know, I obviously I'm really into like broke composers, like Bach, you know, maybe. And so it's like pretty mainstream composers, like Bach and then romance, Beethoven and Mozart and all that. And, but, you know, I also get really, I have, I like heavy metal. I like some more like older bands. I don't really know how to define their genre, but I've been really into like Creedence, Clearwater revival and, you know, kind of like, I guess it's like 60 seventies type of music. Thanks so much for giving me the opportunity. To be truthful to you? Duncan? I don't leave my house very often anyway, so it w it didn't really affect me. I'm not somebody that goes out clubbing. I'm not somebody that goes out during care, and it didn't really affect me to tell you the truth. I haven't walked for four years, so I didn't really, it didn't really impact me greatly to tell you that was about it. I'm in the same boat as you, to be honest with you. I mean, I was wearing a mask for a long time, but at my mental health place that I go to and they said to me, they said to me, you don't have to wear one any more. If you don't want wear one, we have to carry on because we're a, we're a mental health place and it's obviously a medical place. So we have to wear a mask, but it's completely up to you if you want to wear one or not. So I haven't been wearing one either. To be honest with you recently, Okay. Right. So when I was around this a long time ago, now it was a time 26, but I think I was around the ages of four to eight. I would, I was very, very paranoid anxious, actually. I would say at the time, not paranoid, it grew into paranoid. I was very paranoid. I'm very anxious. Sorry. I, I couldn't sleep at night. I was constantly saying to my mum and dad, there's, there's there's people coming to get me. And my mum and dad was saying, there's no one coming to get you signed. You're fine. Where you're safe. You're in your home. I just, I couldn't sleep. I mean, I slept in my mom and dad's bed near enough, every single night up until I was about eight or nine. And then not to sort of add them, float the anxiety disorder, add them float until I got a bit older. I went to school. I had a few experiences growing up around the ages of 12 to 13. I was marked a few times and it really heavily impacted my life. I didn't really realize it at the time. I sort of got on with it and carried on my life. But the Muggins that happened to me, they happen in such a sporadic way that I just wasn't expecting it. And it just fed into my anxiety and anxiety and paranoia. And I would be coming home from school were like 14, 15 years old on the bus and I'd have my hoodie up all over my face. And I wouldn't want to see anyone in case. I bumped into people that mocked me. I was so frightened that I would jump off the bus and literally run home. I would, I would run. I'd have my hoodie on. So no one could see me and I'd sprint home. And that gradually over the years, sort of ebb and flow. As I say, in the paranoia came and went. And I think I was, I started a relationship with my fiance now, which now my fiance, I started a relationship with her when I was 16. And things went really well until I was 17. And I had my first psychotic break. All I can remember is being at my grandma and granddad's house. And they absolutely love Christmas. And it was around Christmas time and they had their whole house was full of Christmas stuff. And now that Santa Claus is everywhere. They had snowman. They had all kinds of different things. And I just remember, they started talking to me. I can't remember now exactly what they were saying. Cause it was like eight years ago now, nine years ago now. But they, they just started talking to me. They were just saying whatever to me. And I would sit down. I would sit down apparently and just have conversations with these dolls. And gradually things got worse. My mum kept him want to accept that I will not, they want to have sex. She didn't really understand that. She didn't know how best to treat me. So she, she took me to, I was already seeing a mental health specialist for my anxiety. And she took me to them and said, look, something's not right with my son, but this has gone on, this is going on. And they said, okay, please come to a psychiatric ward, an under 18 psychiatric ward. I said, okay. So they brought me down there and they assessed me. And they said to my, my grandma and my mom, I'm sorry, my mum and my granddad that I needed to be admitted into hospital. And my mum and my granddad was so frightened because of all the stuff they'd seen on the news. And they'd seen on the TV, they, they didn't want me to go in his hospital at 17 years old. So they said to the staff, they were like, look, we'll we'll, we'll take care of all of them over Christmas. He's going to stay with us. We're not going to let him go out, et cetera, et cetera. And whatever they said it was against what I wanted because I actually want it to be admitted because I knew that already wasn't well, but I went with what they said and I just stayed at home. And gradually things just improved. Yeah, no, sorry. Before that I became delusional. Sorry. I became delusional. I started to believe that I was Hitler and I started to believe that my girlfriend was plotting against me. I was just coming out with all these mad, mad things and gradually it just when I don't know what happened, it just sort of disappeared. It wasn't, I wasn't on any medication. It didn't put me on any anti-psychotics it just disappeared. And then from the ages of 17 to 22, 23, I was fairly well. I mean, I actually started walking when I was 18 as a painter and decorator and I, I was doing a right. I was, I started going to the gym when I was 2021, got to a decent shape. I felt really good about myself and in the people that I was walking with, I stopped trusting them. I started what I now know is voices. But at the time I started hearing them talking about me and I'd say to them, like, why are you saying that about me? I'm standing right here. And they'd be like, what are you talking about? And I didn't really think anything of it. I didn't really know I was hearing voices. I just sort of, I dunno, I just, it was weird, but I just sort of, I just got on with it and I just carried on yeah. Whatever. I didn't really pay any attention. And as the moms got on and went on and went on and went on, I was just getting more and more unwell. And eventually I quit my job. I had a massive argument with the boss and I said, yeah, you're just trying to exploit me. I believe that they were all exploiting me cause I was on the lowest wages I've ever on there because of my age. And I believe that I was doing a lot more work than what I was being paid for. And I believe I still believe this now that I was being exploited. So I was doing a lot of work. So the money they were giving me compared to the other people, my age older than me. And I found out with my boss over and we had a massive 40 an hour and that just sent me on a downward spiral around 22, 23, when this happened. And I stopped working out, I stopped going to the gym. I started getting really depressed, really, really depressed the depression that I'd never felt before to the point when I couldn't get up, I stopped brushing my teeth. I couldn't shower. I was just living in my bedroom. I was at my parents at the time and I was just living in my bedroom. It was, I wasn't really leaving my room. I wasn't eating for days. I was staying awake for days on end or I was just sleeping, just ridiculous amounts, like really loads and loads and loads. And I didn't really, I still didn't really realize I was unwell. I was, I still did. I carried on. I carried on with my day to day activities. I didn't have a job, but I had a little bit of savings that I had that I had from, because I'd worked for six years or whatever. So I'd say a bit of money often. I just sort of lived off my savings for a while and I didn't really think anything of it. I just thought that, yeah, I'm not, I'm not ready to work at the moment. I don't feel right. I tried to do a few jobs and I ended up falling out with everyone that I was walking forward. And I started noticing a pattern. I said, this isn't right. And then I started working with my dad and me and my dad fell out and things just got really bad. And I lost a lot of weight. I was about 85, 86 kilos when I was in my prime and I was really fit and I was really muffled. It was about 86 kilos. And then I dropped down to about 70 and I just, my, I became so skinny, my arms at the moment. I'm quite skinny to be honest, I've lost a lot of weight recently, but I just became really, really unwell. I was weak. I was skinny. I went to my doctors and I said it, cause I wasn't actually under any mental health people at the time. Cause they, I was under riots when I was younger and cams, but they'd obviously because I was all right for such a long period of time, they just sort of let me go. And yeah, it was just a weird one. I started, I went to the doctor and I said, these are the symptoms I'm having. I think that I'm suffering from ADHD. And I thought it was all down to ADHD and autism. And I said, I think this is, I think I'm struggling with ADHD. And she said, okay, then I'll refer you to a specialist. So I went to go and see an ADHD specialist. And she, she sat down with me for an hour and she said to me, you've got really bad ADHD. I can't believe it's taken 23 years for you to be diagnosed. And I said, yeah, I'm quite surprised too, because I've struggled a lot in my childhood. I was kicked out of school. I just didn't concentrate. I was very angry going off and just no one ever picked up on it. And she said to me, I think there's more going on than just ADHD. So can we have another appointment where you're going to be assessed? And I said, okay. So I went for an assessment and she said, we think that you've got something called borderline personality disorder. I said, okay, then what's that? And she explained it to me. And I said, oh yeah, that does sound a lot. Like me, the highs and the lows. I wake up in the morning feeling pretty good. And then when five o'clock comes, I start getting low and all these things, I just tied it all into borderline personality disorder. And at the time I received the diagnosis of ADHD, I received the diagnosis of borderline personality disorder and I received the diagnosis of Aspergers. And I put all my oldest is down to this. I thought it was all onboard. That explains everything that I've experienced. That explains all the voices that explains everything. And that was it. So during this time I was a mess I've missed about as okay. During the, during this time that I was being assessed for the borderline personality disorder and all the other things I was, I felt like I was having a spiritual awakening. I was adamant that I was having a spiritual awakening, everyone around me. I was telling them, yeah, I'm, I'm feeling really good, but all of the stuff that's been happened to me for the last year now I started my uncle died when I was about 19 and I was really close with him and his death was out of the blue. It wasn't there or anything. And he was only 43 when he died. And it just, it was just completely out of the blue and I didn't process it. I just pushed it to the back of my mind and I didn't cry. I didn't deal with it. I don't know if my brain just deleted it. And I started, I started waking up at three o'clock in the morning, every single night to door handles rattling in my room. So I would, I would just start the door handle and it would wake me up. And it would be literally between three o'clock and four o'clock every single night. And then I saw, as I start off the lot, the photo fourth night, I started saying like, yeah, this is where Marla and I Googled online. I said like spiritual awakening, 3:00 AM. And it said online, just the spiritual waking hours between 3:00 AM and 4:00 AM in the morning and this freaks me out even more. So I was like, oh, well. So I was like, yeah, I'm having a spiritual awakening. And then eventually I started waking up to things, playing with my hair, things, touching my feet. I could feel a presence in the room when I woke up. I don't know how to explain it, but I could feel cold presence at the end of my bed. And eventually I just, I just ignored this. I just thought it was normal. And I don't know how all the time, but I just thought it was normal. I just, I didn't really tell anyone about it. I didn't really talk to my girlfriend about it at the time. I just sort of just, just left it and I didn't really know how to deal with it. And it got worse. It got progressively worse. I started seeing what I believe to be angels at a time standing. So my bed would be like this and they would be standing facing me. That would be facing me head on. And they would be, they'd be standing over me because I'd be lying down. And they'd, they'd tell me things like Zach, you're an angel. You need to grow your hair just in a really nice, calm way. Like you're an angel. You need to grow your hair so you can be more like us. And I was like, oh, okay. So I decided to grow my hair. My hair became long over the course of however long I grew my hair. I started behaving really weirdly. I started going out in the streets, telling people that I need to pick, let her off the floor. I would go up to random people, but I just found her on the floor. You can't do that. Like it's really bad. And I've got to have a massive go at people. I'd start like telling people where they could park, where I couldn't park. I started, I wasn't, I didn't get too deep into the religious side of things because I'm not a religious person. I'm an, I wouldn't say I'm an atheist because I do believe in spiritual things, but I'm not religious as in, I believe in a religion. So I didn't, I've never really gone too deeply into the religious thing. But I did believe that I was an angel. I believe that angels were real. And I believed that I was an angel and I started to get really angry while all this was going on. And I believed I was an angel. I started to get really angry. I became, I became smashing things in my room, but I'd have these thoughts where I just thought really impulsive, intrusive force where I'd be sitting down in Jordan. And I'd say, I had a graph next to me. I'd just pick the glass up and just Chuck it at the wall. But I'll just impulsively. Just pick the glass up and just go back and just Chuck it out of the wall or I'd start punching things. I'd stand there in front of a brick wall and I'd just go, boom, boom, boom, boom, or stand the hit in my head. Just bang, bang until I nearly out. And it was getting worse and worse and worse and worse. And I still had this all down to borderline personality disorder until eventually my mom was diagnosed with cancer at Christmas. This at the time it was Christmas time. And my mum was diagnosed with cancer. And this sent me on a really, really, really bad spiral because me and my mum went very close and our relationship was really bad at the time. And I believe that she, I was really strongly believed that my mom abused me. And she, she heard she was the reason that I become the way I become. And at the time I was really delusional. I believe that my mom and dad abused me. I believe that they treated me in a really bad way growing up. And that led to me becoming, because my mom had out of the blue and this just sent me over the edge. I didn't know how to cope. And then I started hearing voices. Yeah. Telling me to do things. I started hearing. I'm not sure if you know, you've probably seen the film, Harry Potter, Voldemort Voldemort. And I started here in Baltimore. He started telling me to kill. I started hearing the voice in my ears when I was out and I saw it and I still put it all down to borderline personality disorder. And then I, I'm not sure how I ended up in north. Cause I'm not sure if you, you, you relate to me on this one, but I forget a lot that happens to me when I'm in psychosis. A lot of it, a lot of it, I forget. And I think it's partly due to anti-psychotics and partly due to not wanting to remember. So your brain sort of deletes it and yeah, I, I, I don't remember. Cause I was so deep into psychotic. This is the deepest I've ever been into psychosis. I was so deep into psychosis at the time. I believe my mom was going to die. I believed all this stuff. And I, I was so scared because I was like, we have such a bad relationship. And it got to like March time, April time. And I became really, really unwell. And one of my friends has paranoid schizophrenia. And he said to me, Zach, I think it's time for you to go use, go to the hospital. And obviously I'd never been to the hospital at this point. I was nearly, nearly admitted when I was 17, but it never ended up happening. And I was really scared. To be honest with you, I was really frightened. I didn't know what to expect. I was expecting it to be people smashing things everywhere. And I didn't, I didn't know what to expect. And my, my community mental health team said to me, we've got a bed for you. We'd like you to go into hospital. And I said, okay, I'll go. I said, I'll pack all my stuff up and I'll go. And my mom and dad took me to the hospital. It was about eight o'clock at night. I remember going in and I had really long hair at the time. And this lady just walked up to me and she just started calling me Jesus. And it just sent me a bit funny is I was all like, God, these people are going to be harassing me all the time. And I was being really nasty to my girlfriend. At the time I was being really horrible to our, to the point when she couldn't handle being around me. Like she would come to my house before I was hospitalized. She'd come to my house and she'd walked through the door and she'd say hello. And before she'd even get a chance to take her shoes off, I've become, I just, I was so delusional and just convinced that everyone around me was out to get me. And she'd say words to me in my head, they'd come across a different, her face started people's faces started turning red. I don't know if other people experienced, but people's faces started turning red. So I'd have a normal conversation with people and they would suddenly turn red and they tied into the devil. Everyone I'd get really scared. And I remember what happened now. I ran up my mom with a kitchen knife. Me and my mum were downstairs and we were having a massive argument. And I was just going off on what I kicked my shoes and they hit the seat and I was screaming really bad things to my mom. And she was saying, she said to me, she was arguing back with me and she was feeding into it. And I just remember getting a knife out of a very big kitchen knife. How much orange running up my mom. And then my mom moved out of the way. Thank God. But that's when things went really bad. And that's when I was admitted to the hospital and then fast forward, how many days or hours or whatever I was hospitalized. My girlfriend broke up with me because she couldn't handle the way I was being. I was so I was being, so what's the word? Irrational. I become very, very irrational when I'm unwell. And there's no reasoning with me. Anything you say is if I've got something in my head, there, there is no, there's no telling me otherwise, whatever I've think is whatever I believe. And she just couldn't deal with me anymore. She, she loved me. She loved me to pieces, but she got to a point when she couldn't be around me for our own mental health. She said that I was making her on well, by the, by my behavior. And she broke up a man, this really hurt me because we've been together for like seven years. And I'm really hurt, man. They sent me into an even worse downward spiral. And first of all, hospital was all right. I went in, they checked me into my room. I was like, oh, well, I'll get my room. I had a lock on my door, which was fine. I'd walk in shower. I'd walk in, tap on a decent bed. I wasn't campaigning at all. And then I met a few of the other patients. I was really helping people. I was, I was at, because I went in there and voluntarily, I was allowed to go out for a cigarette whenever I wanted. And I was also allowed to walk to the shop eventually. And so I would go, I would get other people papers and other patients papers and I'd just help people generally. However I could, if someone wanted a drink, I'll pick up a drink for them, et cetera, et cetera. And I was becoming, I was becoming sort of, I was fitting in, I for the first time in my life, I was around people that were like me and I was so happy. I was, I'd gone from being like depressed to being like, these people were like me. Like these people were experiencing the same things as me. I've never been around other people that are like saying, yeah, I've experienced that. Yeah. This happened to me too. And then we'd laugh about it. We say, oh wow, how crazy was that? Whatever. And I've just never met people like that before. And the hospital I was in, they asked me if I'd like to take her, if I'd like to teach an art class, because they'd seen the art I've been doing over that time that I was in there. And they said to me, look, you're already good. Would you like to teach a class? And I said, yeah, we're up for that. I'd love to see. And to teach people and to help people. And the over the next few days, I was meant to be doing a course, teaching people how to paint and draw and whatever. Just anything to do with art and a new patient came in. He came in in handcuffs and he was brought onto the floor. And I was really wary of him because I was very quiet at the time. And I was very, I was withdrawn. I wasn't really speaking. My voices were very intense. I was very quiet. And this guy was the complete opposite of me. He was screaming. He was really aggressive. And this just threw off the whole balance of the ward. Cause everyone on the ward up to that point knew each other really well. And then through the whole balance out of whack and I was very naive and I'm not like this anymore because I've been in hospital a few times now, but I was very naive then. And I didn't for everyone that was in there, I wanted to be my friend. And I didn't really understand that people were in there for different reasons. And this guy who was fine with me, he started talking to me, he said to me, oh, what's your name? Blah, blah, blah. And we started, we got, we got into conversations about all different things, about the Illuminati, about all different kinds of, and we was both, we was both really unwell. And we got into different conversations and alcohol fairly well with him. And then one day I was, I came back from the shop and I think I had a bottle of Coke or some sort of drink. And I was sitting down and he saw me open it. I literally opened it in front of him. And I went to enjoy some Coke. And he said, yeah, I'm a bit. And I said, well, I have some. And I gave him half of a bottle of my coat. Didn't think anything of it. Then later on that evening, I came back from my leave and he started screaming at me. I walked in and he was like, you put something in my drink, you tried to rape me. I said, whoa, whoa, whoa. And he was like, yeah, I'm feeling all these feelings now that I never had before. Don't talk to me and all this. And I was like, all right, I'm fine. I want to speak to you. And then I didn't talk to him. And I thought that was it. I just want to talk to this guy. He's obviously got in his head that I put something in his drink. That's fine. But he was next door to me. So he was constantly screaming. My name, Zach, I'm going to kill you. I'm going to get you. You put something in my drink. And I had to listen to this for hours on end. Every single night I was putting to bed. I had to listen to this guy, screaming, threatening to kill me. And it really scared me. If I'm honest with you. At the time I was very vulnerable and I was very skinny and he was a lot bigger than me. He was twice my size in way and height-wise as well. He was a lot taller than me. I would say it was about a foot taller than me. And he was very big compared to how I was. I was very fragile and I just wanted to get better. And he was, he had it in his head that he was really adamant that I put something in his drink. And I was, I was a rapist. Basically. He told her, he told the whole, he told the whole war that I was a rapist. He had it in his head that I was a rapist. And gradually people stopped talking to me, all the old ladies that were my friend and I was getting the paper for, they stopped talking to me because they believed him. I told staff that I was really frightened that this guy was going to do something to me. And I didn't want to do anything back to him. I said, I'm really scared that this guy's going to harm me just to pay the staff didn't care. They really didn't care. All they said to me was, oh, well, he's not going to do anything. There's too many staff here to do anything, but there's no staff here that were in the room. There's like 15 of us. And there's one staff member. And then it just got worse and worse. I mean, I'll remember the draw in one day I was sitting down with my headphones in and my voice is not particularly bad that night I was sitting down drawer and I just, in my own world, I had my headphones on. I was in the communal area and he just came up behind me and ripped my headphones off my head. And I was like, well, what are you doing? Like leave me alone. Cause this is going to be a problem. Now you're, you're actually physically touching me now. And the guy said, and he was, I don't care to fight me and fight me. And I was like, man, you're going to kill me. I'm half the size of you. I can't fight you. And I'm really, I'm frightened of you. I haven't done anything to you. And I'm frightened of you. And the guard was auto care, smashed a chair in front of me. The staff just watched it all happen. They didn't care that they really didn't care. They watched it all happen. They just turned their backs. They were just, just didn't care what it was going on. And I reported it 15 times to start 15 times it was on record that I reported I was frightened with him and that he was going to hurt me and nothing was done up until the point when I was allowed out on leave. And I went out and leave and I went into the pound shop or some sort of savers or something. And I bought a kitchen knife. I was so scared. I actually went out and bought a kitchen knife. I thought this guy is going to this. Guy's going to kill me while I'm in hospital. The staff are not going to do anything about it. The guy's going to kill me. So I went to the shop for kitchen. I bought into the ward. Wasn't such a straight into the ward, had it on me down the back of my house the whole time I was there. And just, just not to harm him, not at all to harm him, not my intention at all. Wasn't to walk up to him and stop him or anything. I was just so frightened that he was going to attack me and the staff. Weren't going to do anything about it. And I was going to have to fight for my own life. So I, yeah, I was walking around with an eye for a day and then it got so bad that I eventually called my parents up. And I said to my parents that I'm still an involuntary patient here. I don't want to be here anymore because this guy's making my stay here so bad and he's gonna, he's gonna, he's gonna hurt me. And the staff members told my parents that if he hit me fast and I hit him back because he was more unwell than me at the time, I would be deemed liable. So even if he was to walk up to me and punch me square in my face, if I turned around and even did anything back to him, I would be the one that would be held accountable, which I don't know if that's true to this day. But I think that I was being lied to, but I'm not, I'm not too sure to be honest with you, but I believed it. And I was really sure that if he attacked me, I would, I would be the one that came out worse. And I said to my mom and dad at a time, please come and get me please because I can't, I can't be here anymore. I'm really scared. And my dad came to get me. And in the time my dad came to get me. I'm not sure if you know, but when you were in hospital, you have to charge your phone and your headphones in, in, in the UK, you have to charge your phone in a, in a, in a, in a, in a room. You have to knock on the door and say, I would like to charge my phone, please. Here's my phone. You get a sticker on the back of your phone that says your name, and then they charge it for you. And then they give it to you. When, when, when it's on, when it's charged or when you asked her while I was being discharged from the hospital and I was, they were giving me my medications, et cetera, et cetera, and asking me where I was being discharged to the guy, managed to knock on the door and break into the room. I get my phone and my headphones. And he just smashed my phone on the floor, smashed my headphones on the floor. And I mean, stood there absolutely kicking, kicking the head out of all of it. And I just got the phone as well. And I had no, I was down to no money. All my savings were gone and I just got my phone. It was the last thing I bought myself, a pair of headphones and a phone for hospital and the guy smashed out. And I was just so upset. And I didn't, I didn't actually have any where to come out of when I was in hospital, because I was expecting to go back to my mom and dad's house, like where I'd been living for the past 23 years. And they actually social services actually got involved in because I pulled a knife on my mom. My little sister was only, she was at the time, but she was under the age of 16. I think she was around 13, 12, 13. And they basically said that I wasn't allowed to live there because it wasn't safe to her. It was either me or her that was allowed to live, that they could either have me there and she had to go or have part of that. And I had to go and obviously I was 23 and she was however old she was. And my parents said to me, son, I'm really sorry, but you can't live here anymore. So I came out of hospital still, really, really unwell. I hadn't got back to her at all. I was still severely severely unwell because I hadn't had the time to recover because this guy had made things 10 times worse. He'd made my voices worse. He'd made my paranoia worse. He made everything really bad and I was discharged. And my grandma and granddad said I could live with them for a few nights. And I was discharged my grandma and granddad. And I went from, I could only stay there a few nights though, because they were, they're really unwell themselves and they couldn't cope with me. And I ended up living in my car for six months Duncan. I was homeless for six months and I didn't have anywhere to live. So Yeah. This is what people don't understand on. And I didn't understand it. I mean, as far as the worst thing of it is this guy, he told me, I had just had a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder at the time, borderline personality disorder, ADHD, complex PTSD, and Aspergers disorder, which is now called autistic spectrum disorder. And non-specified sorry, unspecified non-organic psychosis. That was my diagnosis at the time. And I'll just put it all down to borderline personality disorder. But the guy that was actually harassing me in hospital, and I understand now he was on, well, I've been in this place myself. I've actually been in hospital and being in the same way. I forgive him though. I was really angry with him for a long time, but now I've learned to forgive him. And I actually think, you know, what? The dude was unwell. He was, he was really unwell. And he was really convinced that I was trying to write them. So in his head, everything that he was experiencing was right. And I forgiven him for that. But at the time I was so vulnerable and I didn't know, these things went on in hospital. I thought these people were supposed to be there to protect you, but how is it possible that he smashed my phone and my headphones when it was in their care, it was in the room that they had locked. I'll be honest with you. Every say I've been in hospital three times now, and every single time I've been in hospital, I've had a different experience. If you want to run on it more than happy to. But each experience for me has been totally, totally different. I mean, really, really different. And the last time I was in hospital was this year in April, I believe. And it was actually really good. I actually really enjoyed my stay in hospital. I met a lot of people that were really nice and I was the guy that was nice to everyone. And no one was in there wanting to harm me. Everyone was like, hi, I'm Amanda, what's your name? Hi, I'm however, Steve, how are you doing today? And everyone was looking through, but I could see my friend. I made a friend in there at the time, Martha and she, I could work any day at, I could see she was having a bad day. Cause we had the same. We had the same similar diagnosis. I go up to her and I say, do you want a hug? Or do you want to talk or whatever? And she do the same for me. It would be, it was just good. It was really good. It was really supportive. And I had my dog there that was coming to visit me regularly. And it was just, it was a good stay. It was a good experience. The only thing that I would say was the psychiatrist that was in there. He, he didn't agree that I have Schizoaffective disorder. He put down to borderline personality disorder. I, my, my team, my consultant psychiatrist was writing to him saying him, but knows that schizophrenia symptoms that are not related to borderline personality disorder. And he was adamant, kept telling the guy at the guy, Zach does not have just borderline personality disorder. He doesn't meet the, I don't quite meet the criteria for borderline personality disorder. I do on a few bits, but not fully. So I identify myself as more Schizoaffective, Schizoaffective and ADHD. The other, they're the two main illnesses that I identify with myself. If anyone asks me if I have anything wrong with me or whatever, that's what I would always, I would always say personally, but the doctor at a time, he was adamant that I didn't. And I eventually, when I was, when it became the, I was in voluntary, informal, sorry, I, I discharged myself because me and the doctor in there were just on a totally different page. You want to keep me in there for four months. But he only believed that I had borderline personality disorder yet wanted to keep me in there for months. And it just didn't make any sense. And I came out with it on my own back and I just, I was discharged into my own, my own team. Like my, my, my own, I don't deal with the home treatment team because I've never had very good experiences with them. They come to my they've came to my property before and they've spoken really rudely to me and I've had to kick them out and they've said things to me to, oh, you should just get over it. Or why don't you just, oh, I've got this problem, but I go over it. And I'm like, yeah, but those staff schizophrenia, you know what I mean? Definitely. I agree with you 100% that, I mean, it's a Johnny Duncun, I believe it's a journey. I really believe since I've been on the forums, to be honest with you, I've, I've gained so much, I've met so many different people that are like me and I, I relate to people because when I'm on a day to day basis, I'm not sure if you know the statistics with Schizoaffective disorder, but I believe that it's zero, it's either 0.0 or 0.3% of the population habits. So it's a very, it's rare, you know, there's not a lot of people that have, I'm just following something Duncan. When you asked me earlier, how I dealt with COVID, I was actually in hospital during the peak of COVID. I was actually in hospital last March, April, and it was ridiculous. They weren't adhering to any of the rules. They were putting everyone what they wanted to do. They wanted to keep everyone that they tested everyone as they came in. But the test was still like a four day test at a time or something. So they wanted to test everyone when they came in, then they wanted to put everyone that had been tested in one side of the, of rooms and everyone that hadn't been tested in the office, sorry, I ever going to come back positive in one side of the room and everyone that hadn't been tested in the other side of the rooms. And then they were moving people from the positive, sorry. Once they put negative that when people tested negative, they were moving the negative patients to other hospitals and other wards. But what they were doing was they were letting everyone mix in the communal areas. So it didn't make any sense. So someone could, someone could come through and someone could be a new patient walk in there and have COVID and someone who had already been tested four days ago and come back negative would interact with that person. Who'd have COVID. So they'd now maybe half COVID and get sent to a hospital, thinking that they were clear. I believe the mental health staff that walk in these woods don't really care about us. If I'm honest with you, I can't say all of them. I can't say, cause that's not fair to say. You know, it's funny when you say this, right? Because I've, I've met all kinds of staff members in the hospitals. I've met staff members the first time when I was telling them about what was going on and they just ignored what was going on. They could see the guy screaming at me saying he was gonna kill me. And they were just not doing anything about it. Whereas I've also met staff members that are so, so I mean, not they're lovely. They'll go out to the, off to do anything for you. I remember when I was in hospital this year and I had no cigarettes on me cause my cigarettes got lost. I'll tell you, I'll tell you a story. Actually, this year, when I was admitted into hospital in the hospital that I was in there, there's a ward. I can't remember the name of the ward, but what it is, it's an assessment board. So you go from you because there was no beds available. Cause it was really busy at the time you'd go into this ward, right. And you'd be expected to stay there for a maximum of two days. I think it was before either being discharged back into the community or before being transferred to an actual ward. And it was crazy. I mean, there was, there was chairs, there was chairs in, there were, it was like a hospital, not a mental health hospital, like a normal hospital that'd be taught. And there was like one car and in between, but not, they didn't go all the way round. It just went in between the patient. So, and then all it was, was it chat? And then like at nighttime they press a button on the chat and it would require them back. But it was so uncomfortable and it was all right. You were allowed to walk around there. You were allowed to go out because everyone in there was informal. So you were allowed to go out, you're allowed to have a cigarette. That was all right. But I remember I was really unwell. And now she said to me at the time I was very aggressive at the time. And I was very, my voices were very negative. They were telling me, people were trying to harm me. I was convinced that our team of CID were following me everywhere. I was going. I was, for some reason with me, I know I said earlier, there's a stigma on mental illness. But because of the things that happened to me in my past with the trauma, I still remember the guy that, the guy that mocked me when I was, when I was younger and I still remember his face and I still actually live in the era that he lives in. So I've seen him a few times. And when I get, when I get severely severely ill, I really want to hug him because I blame everything that has happened to me on this guy because of the, It's not probably what, the reason that I'm able. No, it's probably not, but why don't I get here? Why I believe that it is, for some reason I can fixate on it. This is a very interesting subject because I actually spoke to somebody earlier about this and they were saying to me, they believe a lot of mental health is trauma based and I believe it all help. Mental health is trauma based, but you touched on something that I would like to reinforce. I think you can, you can have it. You have it predispositioned in you. I believe when you're born. And I believe what happens in your life will, will account to whether you will actually be other, do I explain it? Do you understand what I'm trying to say? For some reason, trauma seems to I've from, from what I read a lot about mental health, I'm really interested in it. I'm really, really interested in it, especially since I've became unwell. And for me, I get, it's really strange for me. I don't get, I'm not psychotic all year round. I'm not like a typical person that has schizophrenia. Oh, well, I've been at what I think anyway. I'm not psychotic all year round. I become psychotic around March, April time, progressively psychotic February. I actually get hospitalized around March, April time. And it's weird. It's strange because I know other people that I've, oh, sorry, I've got my promo trauma and psychosis. I believe trauma. And I think possibly the trauma and psychosis are linked because people, people that have are attacked, people that are raped people that things have happened to they, they, they try and block it out, I believe. And I believe doing that for such a long time can, this is my passport and I believe it can sort of manifest itself into psychosis from people that I've spoken to and people that I've read about. And that's just my personal experience with it. But like you say, whether they would be predispositioned for that anyway, who knows this is I wasn't, I wasn't, Yeah. I've really enjoyed it. Duncan, as I say, the problem is with me, I've got really pressured speech and I'll have a lot to say and it all sort of comes out in one, go due to the ADHD. Don't give 100%, I'll be honest with you. Most of the people that I've met in my life that are really unwell are very quiet. They're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not loud. They're not, unless they're going through mania. That's different. Cause I'm quite quiet person. But we went on to become very manic. I get really loud and really just really hard to deal with. And I think, yeah, I definitely agree with you there. There's such a stigma and this is why I wanted to come on today. I'm going to someone who's 26. I'm just, I want to just talk about it. And I find Duncan, sorry to cut. You short a problem that I find though, it's a lot of people, don't they say they understand why I've had a few best friends growing up. And I was really close with them. And as I've got older, they just don't want to know me anymore because the times that I've been psychotic, they just don't understand what's going on. I've tried to explain to them, I have Schizoaffective disorder. It's a mixture of basically of schizophrenia and bipolar. And I also have a few other illnesses, but they just don't understand that. I don't know whether it's for ignorance or just they, they don't, it doesn't resonate with them. They don't, they can't, they can't like, they can't sorry. They can't relate. They don't, like you said the same as about the staff in the hospitals, they can't relate because they haven't actually, Definitely. I agree with you that 100% anywhere. Would you like me to send you a song or just I've got a song that I really liked for the moment that I'm listening to music really, really, really helps me. I don't know how it is for you. The music really, really helps me with my voices with happiness, just in general, when I I've got songs for every mood that I'm in as well. So I listen to music and yeah, I've got one I'm missing two at the moment. It's Fleetwood Mac dreams. I don't know whether that would fit in with your, with your podcasts though. You might have to, Get done what? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Honestly, I'm into all kinds of music, every frame from heavy metal to Indian news, all kinds of news. Honestly, So begin. They would be nice. Something India, like in a lot of indie music, individual music, just, well, you don't normally hear on the radio, things like that. Yeah, definitely. What, listen, whenever you, you feel like doing it, like I said, whatever works for you. I'm easy, man. I just want to, well, I think what you're doing is really good. So I just want to help you as much as I can just because it is it's they stigmatize de-stigmatizing it. And that's exactly what we're trying to do. Hello I'm doing well today. Just a, another average morning here. Well, I guess my symptoms kind of I'm Schizoaffective but the type of Schizoaffective that I am is a I'm Bipolar type Schizoaffective. So my first symptoms began as a little kid, but they manifested themselves in a way, basically hypomanic symptoms. I would always have a lot of energy. I would do a lot of pacing I would pay. So to an extreme, I would pace around somewhere between four to six hours a day. Yes, the round, the Rondo living room over and over again, I was always really hyperactive a full up and met your nation. Everything's so energetic, but I was just a young age. I was also, you know, depressed. A lot of it seems, I always felt that I was broken from a little bit, but for instance, I was a little kid. I always believed that there was something wrong with me, I guess, I guess thought I, I just thought I wasn't a fit for the world. And I had no idea that what I was experiencing was, you know, some chemical and advancements. I didn't even know what a chemical imbalance was back then. Well, I got diagnosed at age six thing. It was in September and it was my second hospitalization and a psychiatric word for word. And it was September of 2017. I had been admitted to the psychiatric hospital for times. The first time was a first time was in, I believe in April of 2017. It's when I first had, had like started having a very huge psychiatric psychotic problems. I guess I had entered a very extreme irritable state of psychosis. Well, well, the hospital itself, I was actually in voluntarily committed it. I just kept getting really, really paranoid. I felt really paranoid. I've felt really anxious. I couldn't rest and everything. I feel like if everything was just sinking into me and I felt like everything was, you were starting to kind of like, it's really hard to describe, but everything started to lose its purpose. It senses it's reality. It's a very, it was a very huge break in reality. It's like, it was like, my son is, my subconsciousness was leaving my body and everything seemed to be sort of like in a third person, a point of view. Well, the first four days I was in the hospital, I was completely out of bed. I had no idea what was going on and I didn't even know it was actually going on and I couldn't distinguish it from reality or not. It just felt like the, the first four days just passed by. But then as he started going on, I started doing a kind of coming back into my senses and a dust. I would describe the, the state was pretty good, but it got, it got really boring real quick. And what I hate about psychiatric hospitals is that they are the temperature inside that psychiatric hospitals. That always seems like it's just a gut, just a wrong, it's not hold code is not hot, hot. It's right. It's the right temperature to yes or no, you it's terrible. They don't let you take your blanket on to your room. And there's a lot of people there as well. It's actually, it was actually quite fun experience at some points. You know, the other, there wasn't really a much conflict, but dosa, a lot of outbursts from the other patients wanted to throw a chair to another person. It was pretty wild. It's not like they show you in TV shows. You would expect people's straight jackets, but no, it was just regular people will, you know, issues inside of their body. You know? And I learned a lot, cause all these people, if they're good people, their just broken inside of a brand and the brain just doesn't function correctly. And I'm trying to get buy, you know, I'm trying to deal with all the stressors. It was more like it's a group effort to try to help each other while we were in there. And the nurses were really nice. They were really sweet come forwarding and everything. I got a, you got to give them props for all the support and I don't want to curse, but for all the things that they are put through their, their, their, their heroes, getting a check thrown at you and then have how many too, like I have a blank face, you've got to put it simply put a poker face and not make them feel better or anything that they, they really deal with a lot of stressors, even more stressers and some of the patients. My medication or my current medication or the medication I started with. Well, originally I was given about probiotic acid brand name in the United States is called a Depakote. It's a seizure medication, but it also works as a mood stabilizer. So I guess it kind of stabilized my mood a little. And that led to me B being declared safe too, you know, exit to a psychiatric hospital at the, at that time we thought it was just a brief psychotic episode. Cause I had no idea. I had no idea of the other symptoms, so I never really brought them up. Currently I take, I'm still taking valproic acid. I take, I take Seroquel to do Pyne and I take con I take congenital congenital illness for the tremors. I do get tremors, a lot of them actually. And I take Tressa don't to help me sleep. And I believe that's all I take currently, but I've taken in all sorts of the medication. Well, the side effects, it ranges a lot. The typical ones of course are the tremors eye twitches kind of just sometimes when I take them like a good half an hour to an hour from taking my medication into the night, I kind of get, kind of gets gone down for awhile. You could, I could sit in a chair and staring it to nothing for a good solid hour. It makes me so tired. And so groggy, I graduated high school last year, but the last couple of months I high school, I was just, I was just kind of like blinked into that. I just couldn't really stay awake for much. So I was, I found myself abusing energy drinks, you know, three red bulls a day and it's like that. And it wasn't healthy, but I don't take, I try to limit my consumption of caffeine because caffeine could actually intervene with the chemicals inside of your body and make the medicine or not work as accurately as a medicine as opposed to. Well, a lot of them were kind of confused. Like didn't even, they didn't understand what it was and things like that, but a lot of them were supportive, but at the same time, not everybody was supportive. I did face kind of like a discrimination do to it and an academic program else. And they basically isolated me from everybody. Cause I don't know, they, they were misinformed about it and it really, it really sucked. Yeah. It's a good program and I, I, well, I don't want to bash them or anything cause they help out kids and everything, but it was, I believe it wasn't a true that there are treatment afterwards and yeah, it is it's I think that people need to educate themselves better and realize that this thing is not, it's not common, but it's not uncommon and it's portrayed very bad in the media. Well, they were surprised too, but at the same time, just like I thought that there was something wrong. They always knew that there was something wrong with me to answer that in my brain, her body. Well last year during the fall I started attending college. But since I live in the United States, you get, I kind of just when I entered my, in my classes, cause I was going to, I was going to study. I was going to study for automobile technologies. But when I entered, I realized that the tools weren't provided from me since I wasn't able to afford any of it, I was forced to drop back and I actually had a scholarship for the tuition. But the tuition is the tuition is expensive, but all of the expenses of colleges, aren't simply as a tuition, it's bigger than death. Well right now with a Coke or coronavirus thing going on right now, the pandemic, there there's as many jobs here as well as big as currently that a lot of the places are shut down. Some of them are opening. Businesses went broke and a lot of people lost their jobs. So I guess when it starts getting better, I'm going to find a job and, and then to work really hard, I'm going to, I'm going to put myself through some sort of education programs. You know what, maybe a vocational school. Cause I, I want to succeed. I'm going to succeed. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I agree with you. It was a lot of positivity. Sometimes I can't avoid being negative, but eventually I go back to being positive. Yeah. Recently I've been more positive, but that's probably because I'm starting to come a hypomanic. How is actually awake for 25 hours. But I fell asleep yesterday and slept a good five hours and a half. But now I am full of energy again. Oh, I see so many is more of a elevated state of mind. It feels good. You, you feel, you feel like you could do anything to set your mind too. You wa you, you have all these thoughts inside your head, all of these amazing ideas and everything, but you can't, then you have all these ideas and all these motivations, you have the energy to get up and start them. But you do not have the cognitive capability. You did not have the concentration to finish anything that you start. It's a, it's really strange. It's like, it's like, it was like writing is like writing down and a half of a script and they're not doing the rest of the script trying to film a movie and not filming the movie. Cause you're just so full of energy and you can't concentrate. And, and you're thinking about this, but you're also thinking about it. You're just thinking of all the different things in your mind at the same time. Okay. Well, I do listen to music quite a lot, but I like to also listen to stories, scary stories, or just lots of stories, like encounters, things like that. I'm really interested in a social sciences, more like a behavior sciences or the way people behave, the reactions. I like watching movies. And I like discussing the, one of my friends that are not that bad of discussing, discussing that because I don't really like to let you know over-think things, but you know, overthinking things is one of the things that I'm best that. And I also spend quite a lot of time read it, which is where I actually found, you know. <inaudible> the specials, but I don't want them to be free. And I'm next to you to go crazy for the sweet <inaudible> <inaudible> okay.Hi. Yeah, I'm okay. Just, just, just so many just working up to be honest. Yeah. I am a fan of a lot of problems with the medication and sleeping and sleeping too much, but okay. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. I think the problem before in the past Filene has been, I've had sort of the anti-psychotic causing asleep and then some of the other medications I take for the condition has just made it. So I've just sleep slept like I'm up to 16 hours a day sometimes. Yeah. The other thing is you can do about it. Yeah. I do find it that it's very difficult to force yourself to get up when you're in that sort of state. Yeah. Okay. Then what Paul, why don't you So I had my first Episode when I was 19, I watched doing a lot of drugs at the time and I was just getting mentally unwell. And then I ended up going to the doctor after being pushed by some friends and family, and then they talk nice to me, we've having a psychosis. And then, so I was sort of having an Episode for about a year after that and until the medication and stopping, doing as much drugs as I was doing before. And so it took effect. And then I had another Episode when I was 22, again, because I'd started doing drugs and drinking again, and I ended up going to a hospital and I was in there for seven months. And then that was when they diagnosed me with Schizoaffective. Well, I used to smoke cannabis every day. I know a lot of people say it's not addictive, but I personally do think it's addictive, even if it's just a mental addiction, but I was also doing a number of hallucinogens. I was taking coding regularly. My job did feel addicted to, and I was also drinking fairly heavily. I really, Dave, I don't necessarily think it is the same for everyone, but I don't do any drugs now. And I did smoke in Amsterdam this year and I felt sort of the effects of feeling a bit like I, in a psychosis when I did smoke. So I do sort of attribute a lot of the, the severity of the psychosis down to the drugs. I'd say I'm still trying to recover, but I'm doing a master's degree. I don't know. I have a part-time job. Engineering management. Yeah. I, I, I took sort of after leaving hospital, it was during my degree that I went into hospital. So the university had given me, they let me take the second half of the year and after I'd sort of dropped out the second half of the final year, they, they let me retake it and I finished it. And then I just took sort of two or three years to sort of get, get back into a state where I felt ready to work or study properly. So it's nice to see. I'm generally okay. With the medication. Sometimes I think recently I had to get my medication increased cause I wasn't feeling so, and I was sort of experiencing mild symptoms, but since it's been increased, I've been a lot, a lot better, to be honest. I haven't looked into that in particular, but I'm supposed to be seeing a psychologist sometime soon to sort of manage my symptoms better. Most of the reactions are very positive and supporting some people. Most of my friends were very supportive and positive to me, but a couple of them weren't able to that very close friends. Weren't able to sort of support me for their own mental health, but we're friends now. I'm a better, if that makes any sense. I haven't really told my extended family, but my immediate family who've been sort of gave me the whole way. I, my parents visited me multiple times a week when I was in the hospital and I live with them now because they support me through like my day to day stuff. I do experience some sort of experience, a lot of paranoia and I'm a mum, my main problems with my mood and I, and I know I've struggled with my major a lot, but I, I do experience a lot of paranoia and, and sometimes I get hallucinations, which involves sort of spiders and bugs sort of crawling around, along and over me when there's nothing there when I can see them, if that makes any sense. I kind of, in my opinion, a lot of the psychotic disorders are caused by sort of different, different reactions in the brain, to the chemicals in the brain. I think I've read that one of the common theories around schizophrenia is something to do with the dopamine receptor or something like that. And it's a problem W what does that mean? Yeah. I used to be, it used to be with people posting on Instagram and music videos that I used to see a lot to feel would very much relate to something that I was currently going through on really specifically, if that makes any sense or feel like, I feel like if I, if I was I'd feel like I'd get advice from some random Instagram posts from celebrities sometimes. Yeah, I was in hospital for seven months. I have a few friends from hospital that I'm so, still speak to, and I'm glad to be friends with them, but I, in general, I don't have been in hospital and I feel like I was worse in hospital because of the atmosphere and not being able to leave. It felt a bit like a prison because I wasn't allowed to leave or at all for a long time. And then when I was allowed to leave, it was only a short amount of time. Yeah. In, in my nose, sort of, and you have, you had windows on your doors so they could see in an early time, and that was straight. They wanted to really? Yeah. So when I first was there, they wanted the door to be left, open so they could see what I was doing all times. Yeah. Do you think Yeah, I do think they're a bit is a bit too much when I first was in, I didn't know what was going on really. And no one really sat down and explained it to me and then last sort of wanting to leave. Cause I was in voluntarily initially and I sort of kicked off and then I just sort of got surrounded by like six people holding me down and they injected me and this is not really this. Yeah. So yeah, I feel like it's a bit too much and they should, they need to really rethink, Yeah. Okay. Why I felt the main problem is not necessarily from the people, the, the, just the ground staff, but some, if there's a big problem with some of the doctors, they say they, they, they said to me multiple times, if I didn't stay voluntarily, they would just force me to stay for a long time. And that's what happened. I didn't want to stay voluntarily. So they just said, we'll just section in you and you have to stay for, and I stayed for like four months after that. And I feel like that's a problem with some of the doctors in there. Just kind of, you know, making you sick. Yeah. I'm trying really trying hard not to go back there. The biggest breakthrough for me was really stopping smoking weed, to be honest and drink him or just that one day I just had enough and stopped completely. And now I only occasionally drink with my friends. And that No, I don't really, I don't, I, I can't pay attention for long enough. So I, I don't have any watch films or never watch a lot of YouTube. Maybe I will. I'll check off from you and maybe next year, if you were to come back to the show and trying to sort bring my little babies and I get some bands and I get some bands of my little baby, my little baby, I guess a man's and I get some ideas in my little baby, my little baby. It's not <inaudible> it's going to be all yet. I get some bands and I get some bands. I get some bands and I get some bands that tell it, spending it. I get some Bay. Is it? I get some <inaudible> I guess a man is my little baby. I use a man's and I guess Amanda, Amanda, baby.I'll tell you right up front. Duncan. When I, when you, when we talked to a week ago about scheduling this podcast to do this interview, I thought I was going to be a put together representation of what a person with a Schizoaffective disorder. It looks like I was going to represent the people. Well, I was going to put forth my best face. I have had one of the worst nights, maybe the worst night in my Schizoaffective life just tonight. And I've been up all night and now it's, it's it's noon here in Oklahoma and I, you just happened to catch me on the, the day of my worst day through, Be an interesting interview. You know, I've had some triggers building over the last and right now the supposedly people who are, are targeting me are blasting. My head with microwave energy is, is supposedly what's happening now about right now, about 80% of my belief system says that's true. And about 20% believes that its not. And then I am having an illness. That imports is the delusion. Oh, I wish my work a little, a little better than it. It works. It, it causes us to be in a lot of problems. And but yeah, I, I believe that I'm being targeted by the deep state here in America and that they are using microwave a new technology that's unknown. That is where they can emit, shoot microwaves into your body and pinpoint your brain or any part of your body they want. And they, so they're doing that to me and all the, all night, last night I had pain all over different parts of my body. At varying times, I was in a just agony all night. And then I experienced voices 24, seven all day, every day. And I have for the last five years. So they were very busy last night telling me all kinds of different lies and maybe some truths who knows. So I was up all night, last night, dealing with that. And here I am now. Yeah. Well, not really. I mean, this is what I'm going through right now. It's not a daily occurrence. Duncan, it's a w what's happening is I'll just be completely honest with you, man. I'm, I'm going to be very bare, a very, very, you know, to the core here. M I R earlier tonight, for me, it's still a nighttime. So because I've been up all night earlier today, I cried and laughed at the same time for about at least 20 minutes straight. And I was crying and laughing at the same time because I was in such a whirlwind of not knowing what's real, what's fake. What is hallucination or delusion and what is the illness and not, I just, I don't know, what's real anymore right now. Now I have gone through plenty of times where I felt like I was, I was the other way. I was 20% delusions, 80% belief in my illness. So it varies every day is an adventure. And so what I'm basically doing is laughing through the pain right now. Yeah, I can definitely do that I liked that. I liked that I'd much rather live in Lord of the rings than it is star Wars. Yeah, that's a great, that's a great call. So basically, you know, throughout the night things built and it was a progression of, I would feel a buzzing or a, like a, like an electric electrical, current running through a particular part of my body, let's say my foot and it would start out small and then build up and build up on in one foot until it would cramp up my foot and my toes would curl. And so it would be, you know, if you've ever had a foot cramp that, that curls your toes, you know, how bad those can be. And that's what, so that's how it would basically happen. I have a scoliosis in my back too. And so they love to target my back where my scoliosis is in my lower back. So I had a lot of lower back pressure and intense pain all night. And as I said, it built now I've been getting worse for a couple of weeks because the voices have told me that my well, and this is as some people call this like gang stalking, you've heard that I'm sure. So the, the voices have told me that some of the people that I am friends with are now they've turned, the voices have talked to them and turned these people against me. And so I, so that's one delusion that I struggle with of constantly being, you know, trying to check everyone and see who's telling the truth and who's not, you know, like I said, a very back and forth a little bit, you know, one way than the other and every day is different. So last night I, what I would do is I would play music or listen to a podcast or watch a YouTube video and to drown out their sound of the voices. And then I would stopped for a minute. And I always have this thing where I think that they're going to give them some valuable information, excuse me. And so I, so I started, I would listen to them occasionally I would turn off the music, get everything quiet and just listen to the voices. And they would tell me things like this is a worldwide network where everyone is connected voice to skull, and we all listen to each other. If you just think about someone you can, and you listen to them, you can connect with them a brain to brain basically, and you can affect their physical realm as they are affecting mine in the form of, you know, static electricity in my body and, and a muscle spasms and pain. So I went through a thing Duncan this is going to, this is going to either make you laugh or cry or hang up. I don't know. But I went through a thing where I, I decided that I, that my family would want me to fight this. If there was a way to fight these people. So what I did is I put together a plan of how to fight. I spent a couple of hours putting together a very detailed plan of how to fight back against the deep state of America and a very small, easy, easily attained task. And so I'm telling you, Oh my goodness. And so I put together this plan, and then I, I, I, you know, I, I just, I was confused and I was, I was, I was a little manic. So I, I suffered from bipolar a Schizoaffective disorder, which means that I have the ups and downs. Now I've recently started taking zap, Cymbalta, I'm sorry, Cymbalta. And it has gotten rid of my depression for the first time in my life. And I'm 46 years old, almost 47. So that is a blessing, but it's also a little bit of a curse because now I am up a lot. I'm a elevated a lot, right? No longer have the lows that come with the depression, but I still sometimes experience the highs. They come with the mania or hypomania, whatever, whatever you call it. And That's right. That's right. Yeah. I mean, you know, normal people, I mean, th you know, to use that word, a normal people to the people who don't have this illness do not go around doing that for fun. And, you know, at three o'clock in the morning, honestly, on a Saturday night. And so I, you know, so I did that. I created the plan. I then realized after I, then I, I ended up talking to my sister at one point because I needed to reach out to someone. And I talked to her and she is my older sister. She's a huge help, this one of the best people on the earth. And she's always there for me. And so is my friend Russell. And I talked to him and I talked to my sister and they both said, look, do whatever you need to do. And so I started recording the ambient noise of my living room so that I could record these voices and I would have something on tape. And I just made it a part of my plan was I was going to take this recording to an audio engineer to break it down and find that the voices that are within this audio. It's so isolating. You're, it's the perfect word for it. Yeah. And you know, one, one thing too, that's really hard about that is people don't, I think can't fathom how hard it is for you to second, the guests, what your senses are telling you is true. Yeah. Right? Your five-year five, your five senses say, this is what you're seeing or hearing or whatever. And then you have to tell yourself these sensors that have been supplying this data from 46 years, I now have to not trust those senses. And it's really hard to do, Yeah. And so for decades, your, every, you know, as long as you've been alive, your brain has been putting these signals into your, into your, or your, you know, your sense. Has it been putting these signals into your brain and saying, this is what is your reality and all of us and all of a sudden, it's like, no, that, well, you know, and so it, it it's basically, if I was looking at the television while I'm sitting in the living room with everyone else, you know, sitting around and we're all watching a movie and I don't see a television, I see a pink elephant. And I say, guys, what is this pink elephant doing? And everyone else says, that's a television. And I go, Oh boy, you know, this is, so you have to you're exactly. I like what you said about compartmentalizing. You have to separate these parts of your brain and you, and your age, you learn to identify what are the same normal thoughts and what are my illness, thoughts, and you know, where, where do these go? Where do I put them? And then you draw from which well, you feel like growing from it that time. And unfortunately I've heard from a lot of Schizoaffective skits, or, you know, skitzo spectrum people who enjoy the, the hallucinations and delusions. They like that. It gets exciting to them. And I understand that concept. I don't feel like I subscribed to that as much. I'm not really, I, if I could get rid of these suckers, I would be very happy to, but I will say this, you know, what I'm doing right now is a lot of that compartmentalization that you're talking about because I'm able to function and sound. I'm sure I sound like a normal guy. And, and, you know, on one, one part of my brain is going absolutely psycho right now, going the voice because the voices are talking to me right now and they're hitting my head with these rays. So it was just, you know, it's a, it's a wild, wild ride. It really is. And, you know, I said it also earlier every day, it is a little exciting that every day is something new. I never know when my life, Certainly. And I've, Duncan, I've done a lot of my own research. I mean, mostly because, excuse me, mostly because I am in a low income bracket. Yeah. I get a lot of free healthcare and, or some, you know, subsidized in some way, a lower price, income based healthcare. And so my mental care comes at a reduced costs and therefor a, usually a reduced product that you receive. And so, so what I run into is I had to kind of do my own research in school myself, and I've become, you know, over the last five years, I've become pretty knowledgeable about what all that is, that the delusions, that the different types of delusions and, and all of that. So, yeah, and I feel, I hear maybe a little concern in your voice maybe, and I like that. Thank you for that. But I do, I do a know these are, and I know how to identify them. And I tell you what's so crazy or funny, whenever something like that happens, I immediately know what it is. Right. So it's, it's, it's it's as if my mind is split into and part of my mind goes, that's true. And the other part goes, well, you know, this type of delusion. Right. And I go, yeah, I know, but it's still true. So Well, I, I I've, I'm sorry, go ahead. No kidding. Is that because of Hollywood, is that Hollywood thing or is that cause I thought that was the president in most countries. Is it not? Yeah, yeah. Everything, everything is a superhero. Now, everybody, it was like, even like diehard, you know, it started out as, you know, just John McClain, you know, up there doing his thing. Now he's a superhero, you know? So all, all characters in America eventually turned into a superhero characters are basically yeah. And, and, and I th I think that you're exactly right. One thing that, that stuck out to me and what you were saying is that, you know, rebels, because maybe because of our founder, our founding, the, the, how we were founded rebels are celebrated in America. I'm sure that everybody knows that, but they are not just acceptable. Rebels are idolized in America. And if you are not a rebel than you are, what is now just becoming like hip is a nerd, which is a nerd, is someone, of course in America, is, is someone who loves star Trek or, you know, they have, they have this one thing that's not cool to like that thing. You need to be smoking cigarettes and getting drunk or whatever. Right. So that's the, that's the cool guy, you know? You know, some, I think that some people, it does affect their, you know, how they end up living their life, because like you said, life imitates art. And so there's definitely an element of that in America. I believe now, you know, when you have a situation like mine, I don't believe that mine, what happened to me was basically this to boil it all down. Excuse me. I, I started hearing voices first and what I had, what my brain did was said, well, I have to figure, I have to decide what that is that I'm hearing. Right. What is that? And so my brain said, okay, well, is it someone and the other room? Is it someone, you know, w w now I'm hearing way too many voices for it to be someone and the other room. And I'm hearing the way to clearly, how am I hearing all these voices? Who are these people? Why are they in my head? So I went through, you know, hundreds of scenarios of what this could be. So for me, a, a sort of a idealization of what my life could be like, I wasn't really there because I'll tell you a Duncan here's the deal is this is going to blow your mind when I was in my early twenties to a lesser. So from about 20 to age, 30, about 10 years, I was a traveling rock and roll musician in America. Yeah. So you want to talk about the rebel culture? I was it, you know, I, I lived that life of a rock and roll, you know, every night and a different bar across the country. You just play in it and playing gigs. And, and so, you know, so, well, it was, it was a great, it was a great fun 10 years, for sure. It was my career during that time, you know, and I still play music, you know, still love music, but it's not my real thing anymore, but yeah. So I already had a life like that. And then I was ready to get out of that. And I didn't feel like I needed anymore superhero life. When I got out of the band scene, I was ready for a normal life. So when this hit me, it was more of a, Oh, dang, what is this? Now? You know, it was, it, it, it definitely wasn't any kind of an idealization that somehow brought me into delusional thinking. It was all, all of a sudden, I'm hearing these voices, what do I do now? So the stress period, Well, I love that. Well, real quick then let me interrupt and ask you if I may. And of course, you know, I don't know what you do on the show. I, but, but can you tell me what your, who who's targeting you or would you rather not say, Oh yeah, I love it. I wish that I could get to a place, like you said of, you know, of believing in that the, if, if you're going to have delusions, it would obviously be great if they weren't that big of a deal. Right. Like if they were, Oh no, there's one guy thinking about me in Toledo, Ohio, you know, it would be much better than the first and that's stressful. Yes. Well, you know, and so how well, how long, first of all, does medicine work for you to clear up any of your delusions or hallucinations? Right. Okay. Well, I was just wondering if you, like, for me medicine and you know, like I said, the Cymbalta has basically, I hate to use the word, but really it's been eight months now and I have not had a depressive episode in eight months, so that's the longest I've ever gone. So that's great. But the, the, you know, I just started with Invega now. Duncan, I've taken over 20 different anti-psychotic medications in the last five years. So I, its and none of them have touched the voices at all. So go ahead. Yeah. I appreciate that. And that input. Yeah. I mean, it's definitely something to look at it because you know, in five years being on, you know, that many, I mean that's a different drug every three months. No, not at all. What I was wondering is are the drugs work for you? Well, it's a lot easier, you know? And, and I was going to say, well, they don't work for me. It's a lot easier. I think to curtail your delusions when the drugs are helping. Right. And it's a lot easier to not listen to those voices when the anti-psychotic medication you're on has deadened them a little bit. It made them quieter. It's way easier to, to avoid them. And, and, but, so I, I will say this though, here's the thing I, you know, I went from probably a year out of the law. Well, a good six months out of the whole last year, five years where I never ever listened to the voices and they still irritated me because I knew they were there. And in moments where I got caught without my earbuds in and a podcast playing or without music available where I could not drown them out. And I was just sitting in silence somewhere. That was a, that was the scariest moment for me. But you know, I went about six months straight where I never dealt with them at all. And I w I felt like I was on my way to recovery, you know, or as much as it as, as one can. And then I guess in the last year I would call it a relapse that I have gone backwards. And, you know, I, and it's weird that I've gone backwards while my depression was fixed for the first time in my life, after 46 years. Yeah. Right, right. Right. Well, I like, I like your idea though. I like the concept of, you know, let's, you know, you can't ever prove delusions. That's kind of the definition, right. Is that they are, you are a diluted, you do not, you're not thinking correctly. And so, you know, I make up evidence and I, and I connect things that aren't connected and, and then everyone else says, Hey, tone, you know, you're, you're connecting these two things in that really not connected or that thing doesn't really mean what you think, what you're saying. It means, you know, it's just an occurrence, not a fact or a, a smoking gun. And so, you know, I, I do, I think that a Duncan as I get better, I think that I will, as time goes on, I think that I will one someday find the right medication. It took me eight years to find the right, the depression medication. So, you know, I've been in the last five years who knows, maybe on your 10 where you're at, I will find something. But the other thing is, you know, I am hopeful. I believe that I have the tools to fix this. And I've just been in a bad place recently. And I think I'll turn it around. You know, I really do. It's a comedy podcast where me and my two siblings. And I know that it's a little strange after with the discussion, we just had this, I go listen to this comedy, but Hey, maybe you need a good laugh after this, but it's a comedy podcast. And we just started this year and it's called Kick the Cool and it's me and my two siblings where we it's a review show where we give you the reviews. You didn't know you need it. So we get, we, we review that. You didn't even know you'd want it to be reviewed. Right? Hey, thank you. Duncan I felt like we could've gone on for three hours. Oh, I see. Great talking to you. Oh, that was a hard choice right now. I am really into the band Haim, H a I M M O it's. It's kind of a, what's a three girl band and it's a little bit, you know, a little bit electronic, but it's very mellow and fun, so, Oh, that'd be great. Okay, man. So it was a really fantastic, great picture. I wish you all the success with your protocol, maybe one day, Right? Duncan thanks for having me on. And I tell you, I, I'm glad that you're able to get it better than I am right now. And you know, I hope that, yeah, that's right. I'm going to, I'm going to do that today after I go to sleep <inaudible> I won't keep it. <inaudible>.Oh, I'm doing pretty good since this is a Saturday. Yeah, I work every weekday and every once in a while we'll have to work on Saturday, but I've only had to do that once in the last several months. So that's good. Okay. Well, there's a lot, despite the fact that severe mental illness runs in my family, there, we have a lot of a stigma against getting treatment and that has led to a lot of problems in my family over the generations. But so getting treatment was difficult because my parents really didn't want me to start doing that. They were more concerned that I would say something bad about them, and they're really concerned with keeping up appearances. And, but anyway, so I just, my first therapy that I went to was with my college, they had a counseling program and I was just feeling really depressed. So went there, that's where I started. And I did a lot of things behind the rest of my family's back at first, but after I was medicated for a while and things were fine, they seem to get over it and I didn't have to do it in secrecy basically anymore. Well, in my honest opinion, I feel like they had some guilt because I'm, I'm adopted by my grandparents, sisters. So like my great aunt. And I went through a lot of crap before that from my biological mother when I was little. And so there was a lot of trauma there and they always said, oh, you, you don't need therapy or anything because you're fine. Now we've raised you. Well, like you shouldn't have any trauma, things like that. It's just not how it works. But they, I really think that they would just feel bad if they just didn't want to face like how bad things were. Yeah. Yeah. I think that they've all, they were also probably a bit afraid of the system. Like maybe if, maybe if I said something that was too bad than that, that the system might take me away or something. And that happened before I have inherited schizophrenia from my biological mother and it started with my biological grandfather. So when I was growing up, my adoptive parents, whenever I started acting out or was really upset, they would say, oh, you're going to end up like your mother or you're going crazy. Like your mother, you better stop that, that, that was really not appropriate. But there was just a lot of ignorance there. Well, that's ironic because whenever. Yeah, because, well, I just find that ironic because, well, I suppose every one, everyone who has a like, misconceptions about it might take it differently, but whenever, okay. Before I was medicated, they would say, you're going crazy. Like your mother. And after I was medicated, they would say, it's that medication doing that? You need to stop taking that medication or get a different medication that, I mean, they wouldn't know it's not their business, but I don't know. I, I, I can't really blame them too much either because they were just, they just didn't know. You know? I don't know. Yeah. Well, I thought maybe they thought if they could scare me or something, they could scare me away from ever developing. But as you probably know, it tends to rear its head when you are early twenties. So I was more depressed than anything. And part of that was due to the trauma of my early childhood. So I thought it was just that, but when I got older, like when I got out of high school and I started going to college, these huge changes in the status quo, I suppose, were very stressful, I guess like on the outside I felt like I was fine, but I guess on the inside, having those huge changes near right in your life, really mess with you. That's when the first signs started to show I, one thing that's hard to talk about is that I believe that the internet caused like played a huge role in everything that's happened. You're you're not supposed to, you kind of get a feeling that you're not supposed to talk about that because people think you're a, they say like, you're a loser. If you let the internet affect you, like, you're just not supposed to care. And I don't know, that's just not how it works, I guess. Yeah, I suppose it is. So when I was a senior in high school, that's the last year of high school I was getting you, I dunno, things were changing. And I just saw this random guy on tumbler. And for some reason, something just clicked and I became completely obsessed with him. And I, a part of me saw it as kind of weird. So I didn't, I didn't typically go like too far with it. I mean, in a way, but at the same time, I didn't, I don't know. It, it, it didn't quite process to me that I didn't know him as well as I thought I did. So I believe that this was some kind of IRADO mania is when you have like really excessive, like infatuations crushes attachments, and you may be under the delusion that the other person feels at least somewhat the same way about you. Like I thought we were friends, but we weren't. And he was one, one day I sent him like more of my like deeper feelings and stuff. And he was like, oh boy, we're doing this again. Listen, my friends and I have been concerned because you are acting very strangely and you were fine for a while, but you're doing this again. And something needs to change. And that just, oh man, I have never felt so guilty in my entire life. I felt so awful. I just said, okay, I know what I need to do. And I just deleted my account. And the next day I went with my great grandmother to the grocery store and I felt like I was going to throw up, like my entire being just felt completely ill. So it has this sort of, what's the, what's the word? Kind of a psycho physical, Yeah, psychosomatic sort of thing to it. When I got into college after a little, after like a year or two, it happened again and I was freaking out because I didn't want to, you know, I didn't want that whole thing to happen again. I didn't want to, well, I, I talked about it with my therapists and they said, well, you show some symptoms of autism. Like you may just be misinterpreting people's social signals and all that. And I just doubted it because I knew that, well, one thing that I forgot to mention was that when I just developed this infatuation with this random person online, when I was a senior in high school, was we, I, I went to a church camp that summer in, I believe it was North Carolina and we went hiking and all that stuff, but it was completely unwelcome, but I just kept my mind, just kept looping back to this person. I'd see something. And I'd be like, oh, they would like that. I mean, it just, I mean, for lack of a better term, it just drove me crazy. I was like, okay, I've got to stop thinking about this because this is going to color my entire memory and experience of this for the rest of my life. I know that when I look back on this, I'm just going to remember this person, how I was thinking about them the whole time and I'd have to stop this. And I just didn't know how, and I, I really couldn't. There was nothing that I could do. I don't know that that's been hard to talk about because again, a lot of therapists just don't understand and they think that it's me missing social cues, but I just know that's not true. Well, so after I got into college, it happened again and I was freaking out, cause I didn't want to start having these like false beliefs. And so I got to know the person and I was in a discord server with this person for like two years. And he was honestly really toxic. There were a lot of people before that who were saying that he was, and I didn't believe it because when you're a master manipulator, you kind of spin everything in a certain way. And that's pretty much what he was so cut to the future. I guess he gets a girlfriend and I was like, shit, I can't get rid of this absolute obsession. That's just driving me insane. And I it's like, well now he's got a girlfriend. I was just about to tell him that I had a crush on him. And because it was the last thing that I hadn't tried to an end to this and being a complete asshole that he was, he just had to see it in a way that I was like trying to ruin his relationship and blah, blah, blah. But I mean, despite all the, despite all the disdain he had for people, he would always come to them for like help and emotional support. And it was just constantly like on unstable. And my current therapist says it really shows signs of a borderline personality disorder or narcissistic personality disorder, but he always chalked it up to autism. Like everything was autism. That that's one of the issues I find these days is that people find out that they have one thing. And then whenever they have any kind of personality, quirk or anything like that, they kind of chalk it up to that thing. It's all becoming confusing. But anyway, that, that part of the story, although people may disagree with me that it was unusual or just not healthy, although people may disagree with me on that. It was still pretty important to mention, because that was a huge factor too. What would put me in a hospital later? Because one thing that he would do is like, I followed him on Twitter and he didn't follow me back, but I knew that some tea, okay. Whenever we had these conversations in discord, he would, he would kind of sub tweet about like things that we were just talking about and like anything that he didn't want to tell me directly. Cause it would hurt my feelings, I guess he would just put it out in public so that I could still see it. And I just, it may be mad when he did that, but I just didn't say anything I really should have. I should have been like, Hey, douchebag, shut up. Anyway. So that was just a disaster waiting to happen with schizophrenia because he would, I swear he was also looking at my Twitter account sometimes. So that would start paranoid thoughts where I'd be like God to see watching my tweets right now. Is he looking at me right now? That's and because I would eventually just be like, screw you. I can't. I just, I, I don't know. He D he, I won't get into details cause it's a long story, but he really pissed me off. And so I just didn't want, I kind of saw him for what he was at that point and I just cut it off. And I was just ever since then, I was thinking, God, is he watching my Twitter account right now? Because he's really paranoid. He would, he would treat people like absolute dog shit. And then when they, then when they retaliated in any way, he, he would play the victim or genuinely think he was the victim and he would be paranoid about what they would do to him. And so he would keep tabs on them and like watch them and make sure that he, that they weren't about to do something that would hurt his reputation, which is absolutely messed up. So the, the paranoid thoughts that I w I was talking to my therapist about it, and she said, she said, you know, I was surprised that your schizophrenia, that the, I, she said, I won't diagnose you with schizophrenia. But the fact that those mental hospitals, you went to diagnose you with, that was really surprising to me because you always seem like a grounded person. And I was like, what do you by that? And she said, because the first symptom of schizophrenia is typically paranoia and you always seem grounded. And I was just kind of shocked by that, but in the back of my mind, like, I couldn't articulate it at the time, but what I was thinking was like, what, what your personality is, has nothing to do with whether you have schizophrenia or not, that that's just even therapists. Like most of them don't know. They're really ignorant. It's like saying, it's like saying, man, I don't know how you got diabetes when you always eat so healthy. And it's like, It's like, what, what do you expect us to look like? The mad scientist, Einstein hairs that way, but then Easter. Okay. I was in a, I was in a toxic, I just keep getting into toxic relationships because of my upbringing. I mean, there, there's a lot of generational trauma in my family of like, I don't know, abusive husbands, bad relationships, a lot of divorces. So I was within a toxic relationship with my girlfriend at the time. And I didn't, I mean, of course, if you saw it as toxic, you would probably break it off. But I mean, I always made excuses and that really stressed me out. So I had the stress of this guy potentially watching me and then that relationship, and then also being in college and dealing with all that. But also I'm transgender. I transgender male. And I started, I had a really hard time getting the treatment that I needed. I, and also, you know, being trans in Kentucky, I mean, Well, non-binary is well non-binary is a certain type of trans person, but some non-binary people choose not to identify with that for whatever reason, but I would be a binary trans person of female to male. So Kentucky is, as you probably know, are really conservative, like red state. And it it's extremely stressful to be trans in a red state, but also, although the voting districts tend to be very gerrymandered and the system is really weighted in a red favor. The place is actually what we were right between the north and south and the civil war. And we kind of flip flop sides. So we have a long history of being very split politically and being it's absolutely messed up and unfair to just be who you are. And just because of who you are, you are in the middle of an enormous, like political debate and basically moral panic across the entire country, but especially in a place where it's really politically split and every you just, whether you want to, or not, you're hearing people's opinions about it and about you and it's, I don't know, it's just absolutely inhumane if you ask me. But so the stress of that was also on me. And, Well, I mean, I've only ever been physically threatened once, but once it's too much, so yeah. It's mostly social and people talking about you, like, you're a hypothetical, like you're not even there and you're right there. And then they just, they just care about being correct in a political debate. And they don't, they often only care to pretend about whether you're a human being, not, but they don't actually care. They just want to be right. Well, anyway, and then Easter of 20, 21 Easter of 2021, my cat passed away and it was, he was collateral damage of COVID and COVID was also another stressor that everyone was going through. He got this lump on his neck and because of COVID the vet, the vets were only taking emergency cases. And so we just had to wait and wait. And by the time that we finally were able to get him some help, he was just beyond the point of return. And he, I was helping to take care of him. And well, another thing that my therapist doesn't want to diagnose me with, but both mental hospitals that I had was autism. And part of autism is that you tend to be really attached to your pets and they're like your coping mechanism. And I just, I adored him. He was everything to me. And that was just the thing that Yeah. So he, he really suffered and he stopped eating. And cause I guess it was hard. It was painful for him to swallow. So he starved to death essentially, and it was terrible to watch. And the day after that we had friends and family come over to the house and basically hold a funeral for the cat. And I don't know that that might seem strange because I've seen some, I saw a video on YouTube once talking about schizophrenia. And it said that psychosis is triggered by stress. And it, it has to be, it typically has to be an extreme stress, like maybe a family member dying, but not a pet and that, oh man, just the irony of hearing that it has to be worse than a pet, but I know that a pet was bad enough for me. Yeah. I mean, so we were at the funeral and I don't know, my friends and family were trying to, you know, same, more uplifting things. And just over time I just started, man. I can't remember where it started, but my brother, he, I just remember that my brother had to go help out. Our cousin and our cousin has been very responsible for his grandmother and taking care of her. And the, the first delusion I remember occurring to me was like, oh no, we have to tell, we have to tell my brother to get back home because he's a, he and our cousin are under a lot of stress. And if we don't bring him home, he's going to do something dangerous or stupid that he was going to regret. And so when he got home, I felt really relieved, but I also felt like the tension of the grief and all of that, what was going on was just too much. And he is a really, is a very, very emotional person. So I thought I was about to be just overwhelmed with too much emotion. And so I panicked and I just walked out into my neighborhood to get away from everything. And I was just crying and I didn't even put my shoes on. I think I was in my boxer shorts or something like I wasn't even wearing pants. And a, I got this feeling that I needed to find something, anything to make me feel better. And so I just started wandering the, and I I'd feel like my head was turning somewhere. And so I'd walk that way. And I was like, wow, I've got some kind of, I was thinking another delusion like, wow, I've got some kind of primal thing going on. And I'm being led by instinct to something that I need to see or something like that. And so this girl with a dog is out in her front yard and her dog comes to see me. And she asked me what's wrong. And I say, my cat passed away. And I said, I don't know if this makes any sense, but I think he did it for me. And I just started, I had this delusion that he was, he got sick because there's a lot of yelling and in the house and my, my parents and their son are just really, they argue a lot and they always have, and I thought that he was, he got sick because he absorbed all the stress of the household and it gave him some kind of cancer on his neck. And, Yeah. There, the thing about that is there is some logic to it. And I feel like because of that, other things started sneaking in. Like after that, I thought, oh, he wouldn't have been so stressed out. If we had let him outside, we stopped letting him outside because he was getting a, he was a stray cat before. So if he was always a domestic cat, we wouldn't have let him outside letting cats outside is a bad thing. They destroy the ecological surroundings. Like they made a lot of small animals go extinct and they get hit by cars and other things. And, but anyway, I had been saying for several months before that, I feel bad for him that he can't go out anymore. We should get him a leash and walk him. And I thought that maybe if I had been more insistent on getting a leash and walking him, then he have gotten sick. And just thinking that it was all my fault somehow was just the start of adjusted an avalanche of delusions. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's a really long story. And it did have a lot of background information. In fact, I actually got a call from another Redditor who was like an author and he wanted to write a book about this sort of thing, but I had to give him a lot of background information and he said he would see if, if what I was talking about was what he was spreading this book about. And I, I won't go too long explaining this, but I, he never called me back. And I just feel like, well, everything that happened after that would have been really, really relevant to the book, but everything before that it's just necessary because it explains all the delusions that happened after that. So it's just the long story, you know, I really like all to pop. If you've ever heard of Sophie Xeon, she was a Scottish. So if you look that up, you'll find something, but that's also actually relevant to the story, but you'll find out later. So it's spelled X, E X, E O N. I appreciate it. I'm doing wonderful. Thanks for having me. Absolutely. And I guess where it all started was when I was about 23 years old. That's when I first started getting help through the mental health, you know, like psychologists and psychiatrists and all the like, and I, I failed the course at the university of Michigan in Ann Arbor, four times in a row. And it's because I was having trucks ticks and I'd have to leave the class really from being such a disruption. It was like 400 plus I had Tourette's syndrome. Yeah. And I, I still have it to this day. It used to be once every 30 seconds, I go and bumped my head. But now it's about once a month. And unfortunately I beat myself up. When I, when I have my truck's ticks it's, it's like a very violent and it's only to myself. It's self-inflicted, but there's a history behind that too. If you can remember to ask her, I'll talk about it later on. But yeah, I was interim. I, the reason why I was 23 years old, before I got help was because my family does not believe in mental health help. I'm going to say everything about my family today is a legend. I don't want to get sued, but if they do try to assume that I have witnesses that can get me for that can spot me for slander or libel, it'd be slander in this case. Cause it's focal. But yeah, my family, I grew up in a lot of abuse, a lot of neglect. My brother was a bully my whole life, my older brother by about three years, he'd keep a tally ode of how many beatings were expected. Like the highest he'd ever got was 47. But he would say, he would say a beating that would be owed for later when he'd get away with it is what he was trying to do there. And if I didn't lay down perfect and take the strike and sometimes there's two or three strikes, you know? And then he just say like, you gotta do that over again. And then we do it over again. And it, it created a state of learned helplessness. And like for a while there, I would just sit there numb and take it. It was actually when he tickled me for about three or four hours straight, one time that I learned to tune out the pain and pleasure. And in this case it was pain obviously, but yeah. Where am I going with this? Let's Oh, it was torture my whole life, man. Like I grew up my life. Wasn't free until I was 30 years old and it took that long and they always say it gets better. It doesn't always get better. It's like, you got to make it get better. And I met my wife when I was in my thirties and I was able to escape my family at that point. And yeah, it was rough. Like I had food, food, non-perishable food and water and my closet and cups to piss in, excuse me. But yeah. And I had to hold in my poop all day, some days, like it was rough eventually, I know it is. If CPS knew it was going on, then I would have been taken away for sure. And I had a friend and a Catholic school that saw the bruises about a quarter of the time. I didn't want to show them all the time because it would just ruin the mood of the day. But sometimes I had to show him my bruises just to air them out. Like just to know, just let someone know that this shit's really going on with me. And I usually always got beaten in the hair, underneath my hair and, and beneath my clothes. Allegedly of course I'm saying all this and, and that's because it hide the bruises. And if there, there was a few times, it showed up on my face and the school kind of caught wind of it a little bit, but it was a Catholic school. So they they're pretty authoritarian there and kept it under, kept it under. Everything was buried in swept underneath the rug. When I grew up and my parents knew they were in a Glock full, I believe my dad may have Tourette's syndrome as well. Cause he looks to clear his throat in a certain way. My mom, I believe is bipolar. And my brother, I think if this is even possible, he's a psychopath to the general public, but he's a sociopath with me because I can get underneath his skin. And The family is family is who you make. You know, that's who your real family is. I haven't talked to my brother since a Royce defied nine concert in June, 2016. So it's been over six years now and I haven't seen my family, any other family members since January, 2019. And I have my reasons for that obviously. And it just, it kept getting worse and I thought it would get better. You know, there's a lot of Stockholm syndrome, a lot of different things that make you think that you can change other people. And they're not, if they're not willing to change, they're not welcomed in my life anymore. And I, and I tell them they need therapy and they think I'm the only one that needs therapy. And like, I'm just a black sheep or whatever, but I let it slide. Like, what am I going to do? You, I sometimes think that they have changed. Like it's just, it's wavy, you know, like the, the five to seven stages of grief. And sometimes I want to believe that they've changed and saw like, they'll write an email to me and I'll write back, but it's always ugly. You know, my parents, they still $50,000 from me, allegedly from my UTMA account, it was partially a trust fund. And partially, also money. I put in myself with my own hard-earned money and it was just growing and, and everything. And, and I thought, I wasn't supposed to get it till I was 32 years old because my parents were so such like pessimists in the sense that they thought that I'd be divorced by the time I was 32, therefore gaining extra sums of money to help me financially, wherever I would be in life. But I got married at 32 and I realized I wasn't getting the money. And they were laundering, you know, allegedly, like they were, they signed my name, like in all capital letters. I don't sign my name that way. You know, like if I look at the paperwork in that and it's ugly and like, I've, I've confronted my father about this. And he just says, oh, we paid this for you, this, this, this. And like, it's like, okay, I see how this is. You know, like, Oh, it's whatever you want to call it, man. It's yeah, but I've been rambling new year for, it looks like six minutes here. So Only for a little while, then when I have enough money saved up, I already do right now. But like, I can, I'm willing to take them to court and they'd lose their ass. I already know it. I have witnesses and stuff, but it's rough. You know, having to say allegedly all the time, it makes it seem goofy. But I have to say that. Oh yeah. I have a few conditions. I've broke through some of them. I reckon. I don't know. I haven't been diagnosed in a while, but throughout the course of the years, I'll go in chronological order. At 23, I was diagnosed with Tourette's syndrome. Cause I kept having those ticks later on. I was, I was diagnosed with severe anxiety and severe depression from there. I had an episode in Chicago where I tried to live with my friend and that didn't turn out well because I moved to Pilsen at some point in Chicago, which is off the pink line. If you ride the loop there. And I just lost my mind, I was drinking 18 plus beers a day and smoking weed and losing my mind. And they threw me in the mental hospital from that one I've been in, I've been in the mental hospital in and out on 12 different occasions at 13 different hospitals. And most of them were in like a year period when, when I was, when I moved to Chicago and even before then I was suicidal and things like that. But again, back to the mental health diagnosis sees, what are we going to call them? I've been labeled as you know, Tourette's severe depression, severe anxiety later on, it was schizophrenia because I admitted my hallucinations. Then eventually I was called bipolar. And from there I've had a Schizoaffective disorder, which is like a hybridization of the two of bipolar and schizophrenia, but I've talked to my psychologist. I don't have her anymore. I have a different one cause I had to move. But she suspects I'm schizotypal because apparently my parents knew I was autistic my whole life. And I, and that hurts me so much because it would have changed my life if I had more time to take tests and things like that. And even just get help, you know, from, you know, special ed. It's not that you know, and, but likely autistic cause my son, we haven't gotten to my academically evaluated yet, but he's on the spectrum, you know? And my wife might be autistic too. It's just an autistic family here in rural. Cool. But it's like, you gotta re we gotta realize that we don't act like the social norms, you know? Even. They've even discovered that if you have ADHD, Tourette's that these are all signs that you have autism and there's, there's other signs too like that people, I think they say it's one in 54. People have have autism out. It wouldn't phase me a bit. If it was one in 10, I just think most people live their lives functionally enough, where they don't ever need to get diagnosed or anything. So from what I understand, you can look it up online, you can take surveys on it. And I took, I took like a nine question survey with my psychologist and I got eight of them and you only needed four or five to be considered as such. I haven't been diagnosed by a psychiatrist or neurologist yet, but to my understanding, it's basically schizophrenia hybridized with autism and the only real differences, thankfully I'm able to with, with schizotypal having autism, you're able to deduce that sometimes your hallucinations are fake or the, they aren't real. And you can just squander that, squander that belief and not believe that, you know, delusion, hallucination, whatever it may be. And I have techniques that like my Tourette's, I virtually cured it. I know it sounds terrible, but beating myself up once a month, but it's better than it used to be. And I used to meditate 15 minutes, twice a day for three months and that got rid of it, like a lot of it. And you know, it started dying down to about once a week and now it's once a month. And yeah, I, I can't recommend enough meditation just working on your breathing, working on a clear in your head, you know, and, and not feeling guilty over having racing thoughts, like just allow them to exist and let them pass by. And for schizotypal would help me fight my schizophrenia the most or whatever I'm labeled, you know, just don't call me late for dinner, you know, call me whatever you want. You know, but what helped me to do a lot of things is I call them anchor points. I don't know what they call them in the professional field, but I let's say, I don't know if I'm dreaming or if I'm awake or from hallucinating. It's usually when I've been up for a long time, I'm under a lot of stress perhaps in drug induce, which is not so much of a thing anymore. I haven't drank in three years, but I, I look at my surroundings and I go, okay, I'm looking at this carpet right now. If I were in a dream, I just say, okay, that's carpet and move on. But if this is reality, I can look deep into that carpet and see textures that my mind is not able to imagine on its own. And that's what I call anchoring points. Like it can be any ho like any sense of your body, you know, just, and then I got stories. Like I used to think there, people are following me in the past, you know, I've had paranoia and pronoia symptoms where I had symptoms, where I was elated and it was dangerous. Like I thought, you know, I thought I was Jesus at one point. And like, I don't even, and I, and I used to be, I re I was raised Roman Catholic. I became atheist in my twenties because I'm a chemist. I studied a lot of like, what's the last science folk. And that rubbed off on me, which is good. Like, I think atheists are great people. And, and eventually the closest label I can label myself as is a pantheist, which is like the belief that everything it's like a light switch. It's basically, if you're atheist, you believe nothing's God, nothing's nothing of that is sort of exists. But I flipped the switch in that sense. And I believe that everything is God. Like I see God in a, in a lump of soil and anything. Yeah. And when I was see like one of the last times, like the eighth or ninth time, I was putting the mental hospitals, cause they thought, I thought I was Jesus. And like, and I had no problem, but no one sat down and talked to me about it, the psychiatrist and made fun of me in fact, kept asking what my name is just to try to get a rise out of me. Oh yeah. Yeah. If you can think, if you think you can perform miracles and things like that, that's dangerous. I didn't believe that I actually have like, oh, kind of a absurd belief in Jesus and like, and any, and it doesn't matter. It's what I was raised in. Like it could have been Mohammed could have been anybody, but like for me, I think personally, Jesus, Jesus was either an ordinary ordinary man or maybe an extraterrestrial. If he was that powerful. I don't know how he could have all those powers. But like, I think honestly, Jesus was an ordinary man. This is my belief. This is that this does not go with other people necessarily. But like, I feel that every one of his miracles was a game of telephone. You would play that game in kindergarten or when you were younger in school, like there's this gossip game where you play, where you say one word to a person's ear and then Okay. And yeah. So I believe that Jesus, every one of his miracles, if you look at them, they're a metaphor. So he could turn water into wine. That to me is a metaphor that he's like the most social person that could ever exist. Like he, he could turn water into wine. Like he can make people want to talk and get them going in a party. And like, you know, any of them walking on water to me, that means like, oh, he, he was unstoppable. And if you believed in him, he, he, you would be able to do whatever he was said. He could do. I don't actually believe he walked on water. And this is what I believe. Back then I had these beliefs where Jesus was just an ordinary man, but an extraordinary person. Like he tried his best to be at least hypocritical as possible. You don't like to be a good human being. And you know, and even when he died and was raised three days after death, that could be a metaphor too. Maybe he was, he was just dead. But the Romans thought that he was not going to be able to have popularity. And if anything, it made it into a martyrdom, like a martyr. And in terms of all that, you know, like that's mass delusion. I think every person on this planet is, is a mentally ill in some facets know I'm serious. And I honestly think that there's mass delusion. I think a lot of religions are delusional and I'm not bashing people because you need to grip onto something to get through this life. It's pretty rough. But Alice w I don't even what I was gonna say about it, but like, I don't know for me, it's like, I started believing in pantheism or whatever you want to call it. I don't believe in isms either. Like I have a saying, I say, take your isms. Any of them, any, any belief patriotism, any of it, take your isms, schism them with a prism, like put a prism up to it. And you can see the different lights shining off the different arrays of lights. And that's how we know what the stars are made out of. Like from far away, we take prisms to them and we can see that they're mostly hydrogen and helium at least on the outside. But that's, that's fascinating to me. I agree. And what really firmly the look, I mean, you can call me whatever you want. You know what I'm saying? Like, whatever you call me, communist, Steven, I don't care. Call me whenever you want. I don't care. But like, the reason why I identify partially with pantheism in particular is when I looked up this image and I, this is homework for anybody out there listening, like Google image search or whatever your favorite search engine is, and type in internet server known universe and mind just like a brain brain Dendright. And like, you'll see they're identical in shape. They're there. If you like, we don't even know what the known universe really looks like. It's only theoretical, but if you keep pulling back and pull them back and pull them back away from all the galaxies, then you see that the shape has roots roots. It's all shaped like roots. And yeah, I got weird beliefs. You know, I, I, I can tell you some that blow your mind and I'm a chemist. And like, I'll tell you, it's the same thing, chemistry. There's this movie called the fountain and it's directed by Darren Aronofsky. It's got Hugh Jackman in it. And Rachel Wise, I think is her name. She was a U of M grad, too. I forget what her name was. I'm sorry. But anyways, the movie is called the fountain and it was a graphic novel originally, and they were low on budget. And they're like, how are we going to film these like Nebula outer space visuals? And what they ended up doing was grabbing a microscope and doing chemical reactions with it because the chemicals that are in the microscope are the same ones in the universe and beautiful visuals. It's not necessarily the greatest movie ever. I like it a lot, but some people I can understand that liking it. It's very strong. It's all about cancer and death and things like that, but a very emotional movie. So just a heads up there. If you're in a low place to may not watch it right now, but yeah, it's a good movie. And what I wanted to say is, you know, let's imagine the nucleus of a hydrogen atom being the size, just the proton and neutron being the size of a marble, just, just an ordinary toy marble. And we got something that's smaller than a grain of sand, the electrons orbiting around it. Okay. Now imagine this is spinning so fast, just physically in this orbital, it's extreme, it's spinning so fast that you can't see the nucleus, you know, and so my question to you is this, this electronics is a grain of sand. That's going so fast around the nucleus, that you can't even see the nucleus, how far away you think they are in terms of that ratio. You know, it's this, you know, in, in reality, like, so I'm saying the nucleus is a marble and, and the electron small and agreeing to sand or the width of a hair, guess how far away they are. It's two miles. So it's like what you, time's up at 1.6 kilometers, you know? So it's, it's a huge distance. And the reason why I talk about this metaphor is like, that's what happens a lot. Even though out there with the mental health system, when I was a chemist, whenever we were able to deduce what was in, you know, a sample, we had to put a, we had a drown it with something that was known, you know, either helium, if it were a gas, cause that's an inert gas, it doesn't react to anything or like, like an alcohol or, or some sort of solvent. We know what that molecule looks like, but then it just completely isolates. The other molecule with the makeup of the intended molecule is so it'd be like a one to 100 ratio. You put one of the unknown substance and then a hundred of the unknown or more. And like, there it is on a graph because you're able to see it out. And so what I'm trying to get at with these two metaphors is that the reason why we see stars at night is because they're so far apart, there's no difference between the electron orbiting the nucleus versus a planet, orbiting the sun. And, and that's all the stars, that's all the galaxies. And that goes on and on and on forever. But like, it takes eight minutes for the sun race to hit us. So the sun's already gone by eight minutes ago. Like we're where it was, you know? And, and like, if you think about it, you look up in the sky and the night sky, there's red shift, blue shift. That's a whole conversation about how old the universe is. You see the history of the big bang. And that's just one who knows how many multiverses there are, whatever we live in. You know, if there's parallel universes and everything, we know nothing right now. And that's another humbling, exciting thing to consider about in the field of science or any of it is that we are just like, Carl Sagan kind of said, he said, we're dipping our toes in the short and the ocean shore. And the water seems inviting. And it's like, man, I'll tell you. That's what I get excited about every day is just knowing that I can be alone. I gotta be comfortable with being alone sometimes, but there are people out there for everyone out there. And that's, I just want to say to the viewers, if your schizophrenia or you have some sort of mental illness, you're not alone, read up, read up Wikipedia on your diagnosis and like, whatever prescription you're given. I made that mistake once I was given Depakote and anti-seizure medication, that was the only medicine I never looked up on Wikipedia and it almost killed me. And then I got, I was given another anti-seizure medication Trileptal, and that, that almost killed me too. I lost hair. I was like, I would stand up and faint sometimes and I had to stop taking it. But I'm on, I'm on a, I'm willing to share I'm on Abilify now, which is like an anti-psychotic and, and, and like a mood stabilizer for me. I'm not in any antidepressant cause I've gotten, I fight. I fight through a lot of my depression. I'd really, don't not that I'm depressed when I'm in a state of mania for a very long time. And then I'm crashing. That's when I'm at my worst, but I know how to get through it now. And I just look for anything that finds me gratitude. That includes just being able to breathe, being able to talk, being able to walk on my own. Anything, you can find gratitude in anything, the smallest things. And that could help me snap out of my deepest funks. Oh yeah. Well, I started out, I remember when I was three years old, I drew these ninja turtles, you know, cause I was into them back then and I drew them. I said, I could do this for the rest of my life. And there's been multiple occasions where my dad said, I'll never be an artist and that'd be a cartoonist. And somehow I am both like, I, I do it anyway. And I've painted photorealistic paintings before I paint. I dropped strapped pieces. I, I draw them on Delos. I draw, I've drawn. I wanna say over 20,000 faces. And I mean, like not just the same face and I do that too, but as like memes, but like I also have drawn 20,000 different plus like contorted, weird faces. And I had to get, I was like, nowadays, what I use is this website called, I think it's, this person does not exist that come. And it's artificial intelligence constructing a face for me, you know, like that is like, this person doesn't exist in real life. And they did just make a fake person. Yeah. That helps me to as reference because I don't want to get caught, drawn a celebrity and getting sued over, like, what's his name? I think it was Shepard Fairey. I think the guy that threw the hope poster for Obama, he got sued when he, when he drew that whole poster and like, yeah, from the photographer and Obama used it for his campaign. I'm not getting political or anything. I'm just saying with him, it was weird. But yeah. And so I draw on paint, I've drawn, I've drawn and paint my whole life. And then in 2007, well, 2010, I met logic on the street in Chicago, right after he was done being called psychologic. And I have a whole Xen on that. And I'm willing to share that with you, if you want to put in your description or not. Yeah, go ahead. Probably the best place to go is woo-hoo poopoo and like I'm on YouTube and I'm, I got a.com, but it's pretty ancient. I got to change it up a little bit, but I got a good Instagram and YouTube going under and it's w O H L O P O O P O O double lows all around. It worked for Google. Yeah. And I start, I started, I started writing poetry. I wrote a little bit of high school, nothing like just for assignments. And I did pretty well back then. I didn't think anything of it, but when I first met logic on the streets, Chicago, I was wearing a mask and he asked who my favorite rapper was. I said, MF doom. And he told me I could rap. And we talked for hours about it. And like, I didn't, I didn't really believe him at first. I didn't believe in him until he started spitting some lines. I was like, man, this guy has fire. And I didn't believe myself until seven years later, I started writing poetry in, in February, 2017. So it's been about five years now. And, and I can rap, I can freestyle, but I gotta be careful freestyle. And because if I freestyle, sometimes I get like obsessive compulsive disorder with it. It landed me in the hospital one time because I couldn't stop rapping. Like I couldn't stop rapping and everything, but excuse me. So I'll read one here. This one is getting published in Detroit and Detroit's poetry magazine next issue for spring, summer or summer and fall. I can't remember, but it's the next issue of a Detroit river wise magazine shout outs to Vail. Thanks for hooking me up. And this one's called America. What is beautiful? And so the book I'm releasing, I didn't talk about that. I'll talk about that real quick. I'm releasing this book called right on the line and it's a play on the phrase, read between the lines and like, just like blood, you know, it's Britain and black, white, and red, and the colors are only that it's only black and white and red all over, which is an old joke here. I don't even think Jen like zoomers would get the joke because newspapers have been gone. But the riddle used to be what's black and white and red all over. And like, you'd say a newspaper because you read it, but it's black and white and it's red all over. But like, I, I, I played with that phrase between read between the lines and I wanted to make something that's black and white and red all over. And so what I did is I have 101 poems for this book and it's going to be out by September. I'm giving the first copy to logic. I'm going to go see them September 1st. I got really good seats. I blew a lot of money on it and like, I'm gonna make sure he gets this book. If his last thing I do. But I mean, I'm going to contact security in that. I've done this stuff before, but like, this is, this is my first real finished piece like that I can actually mass produce and sell. And it's, it's read a line and I'll just read this poem. That's getting published. And it's the image is a Benjamin Franklin hundred dollar bill in black, white, and red. And the name of the poem is America. What is beautiful? And so here we go, divide and conquer, dive I'd bonder. We do as America, not seeing how we conned here, we are farther than genocide and slavery turning blind dies. It's all me, me, me. The truth is young among the misinformed distract. And the truth is wrong along the Ms. Dunn foreign people with plastic for-profit prisons have slaves. There's Mexican children in camps, politicians deem brave while immediate actions are trips. The day will come shortly when the global economy collapses. Thank God it lasts. I say, and that's, that's designed as massive masses get back or be passive mask it. And that's that one. I might make them into wraps in the future. I got a pen pal in London that I'm trying to make an album with at some point, but that's all in the future road. And like, I hope logic picks up on this, but you know what? I think this, for me, even if this book flops, I don't care. I did it for me. I was talking to people yesterday, randomly and to two separate occasions and they wanted to buy my book and I just didn't have it out yet. So that's a good sign for me, you know, but yeah. And I got other poems too, but it's whatever bus for time, you know? I like lo-fi hip hop, shout outs to Dilla and new GBS, the founders of that genre of music that is, there's a whole book called Dilla time that came out this year. And like the guy invented a new sort of beat making that's off, off the beat, you know, like Yeah. And I can wrap over that. I'm going to, I can rap over boom-bap beats and all that, but like, I was whatever you want to put on, man. I, I'm honored. Thank you for all the compliments. It's something I used to have a hard time taking, but I just, it in, cause it's still shows a vulnerability on your end too. And I just gotta say, thank you. This podcast is wonderful. It's a great way for people to reach out and humanize our mental illness. Seriously. Thank you.I'm fine. Okay. Schizoaffective with depression. Well, as a younger child, I experienced a lot of things. And during that time I had a lot of intrusive thoughts. And as the years progressed, I just started showing more symptoms, such as paranoia and paranoid delusions and whatnot. And it didn't take until I got to high school and I was in a really bad psychotic episode. And it's just like, my entire personality was just shut down. And that was the first time I went to a mental hospital and that was the starting of my diagnosis. But during that time for a while, it was just a lot of misdiagnoses first. They said I had depression and anxiety. I was like, yeah, I can get that. I can get that. Then they said I had bipolar disorder. I was like, I guess I can get that. And they said, I had schizophrenia. It was like, I don't know about that. Cause it's like, at that time, I just thought, you know, I just thought having this, not having schizophrenia, it just one of the scarier things to me, mainly because of how it's portrayed. And it's just, I don't know. I didn't want to accept it, even though it made sense. And when I finally got my, you know, final diagnosis by which was, you know, consulted by my side quietest and my personal therapist, and they said, well, it sounds like you have a Schizoaffective with depression since my psychotic episodes and depressive symptoms, aren't, you know, consistent, they described it as like a bipolar disorder, but, you know, with psychotic, with psychotic tendencies, as well as it's being accompanied by depression, since I do suffer from suicidal thoughts. And when they said that, I could definitely understand it. But you know, since then it's been almost two years since the diagnosis and I'm trying, you know, to cope, but not all the days are going to be the best for me. I'm so when I started having the paranoid delusions for, I want to say almost a decade, I was being bullied by my peers and nobody was listening to me. And the main occurrence would be, they're talking about me, they're talking about me, they're talking about me, you know, and what would be accompanied with that would be mainly like shaking, like mild shaking and then accompanied with that would be homicidal thoughts because it's like, I just felt really unsafe. Obviously with the paranoia, I just felt extremely unsafe. And I constantly thought that I was going to be, you know, attacked because I did get into fights often to defend myself. And it's just not a good time, you know, Whenever I have paranoid delusions, S w surrounding they're talking about me, or I feel like I'm about to get hurt, I have to do something. They absolutely feel like reality. Like all of my delusions feel like, you know, it's actually, you know, happening. Like I had a brief period where I was extremely paranoid about dying to the point of having panic attacks and having really a really bad sleep schedule am I would only get like four to like three hours of sleep. It would be that bad. And I was, you know, set on like, I'm going to die in my sleep. I'm going to die. And my sleep, I can't sleep they're would be times where I'd have religious delusions. And it would be like, there is a demon inside of me. There's an angel inside of me. And they're talking to me, there was a brief period where I thought that I was an angel myself and that I was set on the world to, you know, save people. But then it went from, I have to save these people to a very pessimistic view of the world. So it's just, whenever I experienced a delusion, they always feel real. Or at least to me, and I would get extremely angry whenever people told me when it, when I'm mentioning my a religious delusions, I would get extremely angry when people told me that, Oh, you know, they're not real. Right. Cause its like, it, it feels so real and it makes me feel like they are telling me that I'm lying and I see it. That just doesn't sit right with me. But it's like, you know, I'm not, I'm not delusional. States I can understand. Like that was just a moment of psychosis instead of Yeah this is just awful. Yeah. You know, like I don't know how to explain it properly. Yeah. I can get what you're saying. I recently stopped the medication by my own choice because of the, what is it called now? I'm at a blank for the word because of the side effects. I mainly stopped because of the side effects. And because I grow a tolerance to my medication a lot, I would change medications very frequently and it wouldn't even be a year with them mainly because I would experience no change or my symptoms would worsen. So back in March, I said, I just can't do this anymore. 'cause it was an extremely bad depressives Episode and like every day I was like crying my eyes out. I was like, I just can't do this anymore. This medication isn't working, I would rather, you know, do extensive therapy rather than, you know, take meds that won't work for me. So even though I recommend medication, I don't think it's for everybody, you know, Yes. A that's I didn't start getting medicated until two years ago, but I experienced the symptoms as a young child. You I agree. Neither did my therapist, but he did say since you, no, I'm at my age that I should be able to make decisions for myself. He did warn me about my symptoms, you know, coming back or my symptoms, you know, possibly worsening regarding my paranoia because it does get extreme and it's like, Hmm, I understand that. But I'm willing to take the risk because I really don't like the side effects that anti-psychotics have on me, especially since I'm, you know, this young, like it's for me, it's just too much for me to handle that. I don't think it's dangerous because it's, I don't think it's dangerous. The only thing that I probably disagree with was the medicating part. Cause I'm, I'm very self-aware, but at the same time, my symptoms does get the ability rating so I can understand why they want it to medicate me. So I couldn't, you know, and be able to function better in social situations and, you know, function better in life because like there would be times where I just wouldn't get out of bed. I wouldn't take a shower, things like that. It's just, I understand medication at times, but I also understand diagnosis 'cause it just gets a better a hold of, you know, what's your dealing with a, for lack of better word as a psychiatrist and as a therapist, because I know that there are children younger than me who deal with the exact same, if not similar, you know, things that I do regarding, you know, mental health. And it's like, I don't think it's dangerous, but I do think it's used to better understand, which makes sense to me, but medication definitely. I don't know. Yeah. I don't think that medication should be okay. The thing that currently helps me is my personal therapist. I feel, you know, safer when ever I'm in. I feel safer whenever I get to speak to somebody one-on-one versus, you know, speaking, you know, in a group setting about my issues versus, you know, speaking to people like my parents or my friends about my issues, mainly because it it's just, what if they try to use this against me type of thing. They won't understand type of thing. They'll think I'm crazy type of thing. Like it's, I feel like it's more of a personal preference, but it's also a, I'm looking out for myself because I don't want history to repeat itself. Okay. Are you talking about like coping, Since I'm at home, most of the time, the main thing that I usually do is just, you know, play the Sims and that's it. And, and that's really, you know, soothing for me on top of that, I do world building in creative writing and that, you know, it makes things a lot more easier to deal with because whenever I get on the topic of creative writing or whatever, John rhe, I'm writing in that, at that time, I just get really excited and that's all I can think about. So it's just, it's I guess you can call it therapy, but not everything you know is lasting, you know, I would, but I feel like I wouldn't be good enough for people to, you know, actually purchase anything that I wrote. I like my work. I do. I think I'm good at it, but I'm not, you know, Stephen King type of Good, you know? I do have a nihilistic sense of view regarding my future in the world itself, but there are times where I'm like, okay, well I do want to do this eventually. Like I do want to get married. I do want a sort of family. I used to do want to have a successful life and lineage, but it's like at the same time, when I think about my mental health and the way I operate, it just feels like it's not, you know, attainable. Like I have trauma surrounding adults, especially when adults get confrontational. And that is a big thing that I, that I try to, you know, not react in a negative way with, but it just feels like, you know, with people in general, it feels like as I get older, I'm still going to have like, you know, that repressed within me and, you know, everybody has different breaking points. And I just feel like if people still ask for the way that people do, which will be inevitable, that I'm still going to, you know, lash out or there is going to be something that somebody says that triggers, you know, a flashback or that triggers a Episode or, you know, it's just, I just feel like there's so much right now. And in this moment it feels like it won't change because every time I feel as if it's getting better or if I'm at a good point in my life, it just feels like it all just comes crashing down. Like, and a lot of times it feels like I can't do much about it and I do hope for the best, but at the same time, I'm not expecting much. Yes. The first time I hallucinated was when I was 15 and I was in a really bad depressive episode and I was trying to go to sleep and it was just like three voices. And they're just like, you're stupid, you're ugly. You're fat, kill yourself, kill yourself, kill yourself. I'm like, God damn, let me, let me go to sleep. Or at least one at the time, you know? But, but since then it has been, you know, off and on again, you know, hallucinations, the main one was a black figures and it's like, I knew that it was like, I know that like shadowing people aren't, you know, run in from door to door and everything like that. But more recently it's been like fleas biting me. And that has been extremely uncomfortable as you could imagine. Cause it's like, I feel a flea biting me and I look at my arm. There is nothing there. I'm like, get off, get off, you know, it's just the last time I had a bug related, tactile hallucination. I was like trying to go to sleep. And there, it felt like there was a Roach crawling all over me. She was like, get off, get off, get off in like sitting in there or panicking right next to my mom. Cause we were driving and she's like, so, so what's what's wrong. Like I was like, there's a bug on me. My mom has to get off. It has to get off. It's like, if there is nothing on you, there's nothing on you is just like, but it doesn't feel like the truth. Cause it's like, you can feel it. It's just, I just feel like that's just one of the worst things. Cause it's just, especially when you can't do it. Cause it's just like your trying so hard. Like where is it? Get off, get off, get off in it. It won't get off, Alright. See you in a year. <inaudible> <inaudible>.I'm good. Thank you for having me. Well, I started having an issue sometime when I was in the army, which I served for 15 years and I started to see things. I started to hear things, but everything grew on so gradually that I really didn't know anything was wrong. What's that? I joined the army in 2003. So I was 25. I did not. Yeah. So while I was serving in Iraq the second time I was struck by lightning and my wife and I are pretty sure that that's when, about when I started having issues. And I don't know if it was from a brain injury or, or what from that point. But as I said, I really didn't think I had a large issue or wasn't aware that I had an issue, but I was in the mental health system for a lot of depression and anxiety and things like that. But one day sitting on the porch of our apartment and in Los Angeles where I was going to school, I asked my wife what her thoughts sounds like. And she thought it was a very odd question and tried to describe how thoughts work inside of her head and realizing that this was a very different process for her as it was for me, that kind of began my journey to being medically retired out of the army for my Schizoaffective disorder. I was there as a construction engineer, so I saw except for a lightning blast and then one Morter that came in kind of close to me. I saw no action. I was still in a war zone, I mean, they were still, there was still things happening around me, but never to me. Yeah. Many years later, like 10 years later Yeah. I saw many psychiatrists, but I went through a pretty big circus of diagnoses on there initially, you know, just, you've got some anxiety issues here take this and take this Ativan, or you have depression try this SSRI. And they kept trying me on different, kept trying on different antidepressants thinking I was just depressed and none of them seem to really work for me. And in fact, all they did was cause side effects that made things worse. But eventually when I was in Los Angeles going to grad school as a, as an army assignment, I was seeing the air force doctors instead of army doctors. And they seemed a lot more willing to diagnose me, and then they didn't have a psychiatrist on staff. So they sent me to a civilian psychiatrist, and that was the time when they started giving me what I felt like was true and real diagnoses, which was good for my mental health and for making me live a better life and everything. But it was a career killer for me. I tried working at five different jobs after I was retired from the army and my condition made them all untenable to where I couldn't do it. So I am, I am just retired now. My wife would tell you, I just spent most of my time just kind of following her around the house, wandering what she's doing, but I spent a lot of time with video games. I do, I do write on my blog. Yeah. And then I'm working on a memoir about my mental health journey through the military right now, too. That was one of my big goals is to do my part as an individual to erase some stigmas. I mean, here I am with all kinds of training to where I can be a violent person, but there's absolutely nothing violent about me. I'm not a violent person. There's really, there's really not. And I don't live in a very, I mean the closest city to me is Portland and that's two hours away. So I live in a pretty small community. There is a, there is a veterans of foreign Wars here, but from my experience, that's more of a drinking club and a bar than is that. And with my medication, I don't drink at all. It's actually a really friendly, really inclusive town. For instance, the town is loaded with pride flags and ah, it's a very inclusive town. I don't think anybody feels uncomfortable here. It is. It is a really nice, it reminds me of the small towns I grew up in the Midwest, except for if you're different here, it's appreciated. Yeah, I'm actually pretty open about it. I, as I say, I am out of the crazy closet. So no all my neighbors know about my condition, my, my friends here, they know I'm pretty forthright with it. Yeah. And I'm able to, I'm able to do that on my part of the United States. Now, when I lived in the middle of the United States in Kansas, which was my first home after I got out of the army, I was not able to do that so much. Mostly of them? Pretty good. I mean, I, I kind of back before I knew what it was going on with me and I was kind of spiraling through life a little bit. I kinda disillusioned a lot of my friends then. So I lost most of my friends. There are some that I still have now, and it's, it's, it's a changed relationship. But the problem that I have is that with that is it's, it's not really fair for me to comment on this because I live a long ways away from any of them right now. So my relationships with them or just on Facebook. Yeah. At my home, I'm usually in really good shape. It's kind of my home base and I don't have a lot of issues there. I have, 'em when I have problems, it's usually when I'm around strangers, like for instance, last night, we were at a Halloween party. Yeah. And the only person I knew there was the couple that was hosting it and my wife and my own children. And I got to the place to where I couldn't do it anymore. So I turned to my wife and I said, I, I would really like you to take me home. And we just all leave at that point, but the host family was somebody that knows about me and knows about my condition. And April, my wife was able to just go and tell them, hey, Brad is having issues. So we are going to take 'em home. And by the time I got home, I was okay. Now in the car. I did take a rescue drug a Klonopin so I wouldn't have a panic attack, but kind of derailed the rest of my day. But once I got home, I was good. No. You don't? Have you ever smoked? Yeah. The last time I had a cigarette was in Iraq. I quit when I left there. Okay. When I smoked, when I was a bar tender or back in college. Being bullied? Not really no. Growing up. I was kind of a friend's with everybody. I am a shameless video game addict, but lately with what's the, the science term for it, anhedonia, with the anhedonia, I don't even care to play video games. The apathy thing and the inability to experience pleasure. That's where I'm at too. Yeah. and then a, I am trying to get back in the scuba diving. Okay. No, I, I did. I did. In of all places, Alaska, I scuba dove up there, but, and then I got married and life happened and I know I'm starting to get back into it, my kids are at an age where I can have hobbies again. Oh gosh. I don't know. Cause we, we covered like the stigmas and stuff and that's always my big topic I like to talk about is that, you know, schizophrenia, it's, it's a, it's a, it's a brain disorder. It's, it's something real that happens to people. Yeah. And even though we don't understand that completely, you know, I wouldn't shun somebody because there's something wrong with their heart, but you know, there's something that's wrong with, with our brains. Hmm. Yeah. Not saying that we should be discriminated against about, but yeah. Well, on a personal level more than a professional Oh lately I've been listening to a lot of eighties and nineties punk music. Like, like I am not familiar with that. Thank you for the opportunity. <outro music>