0 (27s):
Take off your <inaudible>

1 (35s):
Today. I don't have a guest just call. I was talking about psychotic for my own personal experience and also something that I've read in the news recently as well. So I take a lens of pain, which is, could use me notice my practice. It's an atypical psychotic. I was first prescribed it back in 2000. I think it's difficult to remember. I took her all the way up to 2010 various state switches.

1 (1m 22s):
I think I started off from my 7.5 milligram that went down to five, went down to 2.5 and then it went up again in 2010, I stopped taking my medication because I thought I was well, and that was a bad move because what happened was is that I had a hard relapse. I mean, before I stopped, I wasn't hearing voices and I was four. I was fine, but I didn't even speak to my doctor.

1 (2m 7s):
I just stopped off my own accord, but I wasn't fine because first of all, the first thing that happened was I had the horrible withdrawal symptoms. I was feeling nauseas I had stomach pains. I couldn't sleep. And this, this, this withdrawal effects went on for about three months, just awful nausea in my stomach. I was always catching my stomach because it was in pain. It was horrendous. I mean, that was 10 years of taking the lens of pain and then stopping, not stopping, you know, with the clinician's advice or tapering down properly, I just thought kind of cold Turkey.

1 (2m 58s):
And it was a killer, all symptoms were killer. And then after that I started hearing voices again, and the voices were loud and very distressing. I was off meds for about a year before I basically went to my GP and I said, look, you got to put him back on some meds because I can't handle this. I mean, the voices were so bad. It was just driving me mad. Just imagine as if you're at home and you hear this, the voices in your head that sound like this, like a dismembered voice sounds like a real person and they're not pleasant.

1 (3m 41s):
And I might swear, I might curse at you or they matter to you what I screaming. And it's just so disturbing and you can't stop it. There's a few things you can do just to relieve the pain a little bit, like listening to music, distracting yourself, but generally you can't do anything about it. So I went to the GP and I said, listen, I need my psychotics. So I saw a psychiatrist and he diagnosed me with a severe schizophrenia.

1 (4m 23s):
And he said, he said, yeah, you've got schizophrenia because my diagnosis before 2010 was psychotic episodes. Obviously I was having psychosis for 10 years and it was chronic. So that is where my diagnosis came from. This psychiatrist is very good. He, he suggested I go to Abilify. He gave me some documents so I could read about it. So I read about it and looked good as limited side effects, you know, not like weight gain on drowsiness, like in a landscaping software trial.

1 (5m 11s):
I was really excited to try it. I was on Abilify for about a year. Yeah. And I had a horrendous side effects of a restlessness. So it's like, it's like, you couldn't stay still. Or like, if I was, if I'm trying to watch a film, it would, I would feel really uncomfortable. I had to get up. And it was just something you couldn't, it was like a restlessness that you couldn't relieve. There's nothing you could do to relieve that I couldn't play video games or anything like that because I felt pain in my head. Like a physical pain is like, as if it was just horrible.

1 (5m 53s):
And the thing about allowance of pain, even though you get weight gain and get drowsiness is quite competent drunk, it kind of makes you kind of mellow kind of just, and there's no pain with it. So, yeah. So I stuck at Abilify for a year and that was horrible. It was how so I saw another psychiatrist and he put me over the lands of pain. And how was the godson? Yeah. Cause I was still hearing voices. I was hearing voices from 2010 and I'm still hearing them 11 years later.

1 (6m 36s):
I haven't stopped because I had a hard relapse. So yeah. So I put on weight with olanzapine. Definitely. I am severely overweight. I'm also quite tall and quite broad. So it doesn't look that bad. I recently got diagnosed with type two diabetes. It's very common with olanzapine. So yeah, it's quite a, it's a tough journey, but it's a tough journey.

1 (7m 17s):
But I mean, you know, I'm, I'm trying to do things too. Like I believe in Palm based eating, I feel that will help me, help me lose weight and help move us diabetes. So that is kind of what I'm doing is plant-based eating, which basically means eat like grains, vegetables, and fruit. I mean, that's by doctors like Dr. Neal Barnard, he recommends this, this Stier, Dr.

1 (7m 56s):
McDougall recommends a style, you know, there's a lot, it's, you know, it's basically vegan is basically, that's what it is. So that is why I'm, I'm trying to do so. So yeah, that's kind of my story. That's like an abridged version of my story of antipsychotics and my schizophrenia diagnosis, but you know, so many crazy things happened to me when that year, when I was off meds, it was totally crazy. It was quite enjoyable in a sense. But at the end it was driving me mad. I was out of autonomy about clue my eyes out or something, just trying to get to your brain and get the painter to ease off.

1 (8m 44s):
But there's nothing you can do. Yeah. So I decided to take the edge off it. They didn't stop the voices, but I took the edge off it like to like sharpness away soda. So basically it's bearable. It's bearable. Yeah. But I also want to talk about what I've read in the news recently about any psychotics. So the traditional atypical anti-psychotics block the dopamine in the brain, but with searches that Pittsburgh school of medicine have found why these drugs cause weight gain because blocking dopamine in the pancreas Allows uncontrolled production of key hormones play to obesity and diabetes.

1 (9m 38s):
So it's the blocking vote mean in the brain and the pancreas, which is a key to why said typical medications, atypical anti-psychotic medications, cause weight gain.

0 (9m 53s):
And also

1 (9m 53s):
We've started talked about this in the past, in the past episodes, but there's also the, which I'm quite excited about this new nasal spray. So this was developed by McMaster university in Canada. They developed a nasal spray

0 (10m 7s):
Which can deliver,

1 (10m 10s):
I just cycled expired to the brain and it will bypass the, it will bypass the blood brain barrier. So blood bypasses a tidy system. So you won't have that issue of digesting the drug. It'll just go straight to the brain. So at the moment they're seeking a commercial partner to take this further, let's take it into, into the marketplace. This is quite exciting stuff. Really.

0 (10m 46s):
So yeah,

1 (10m 47s):
I mean, I just wanted to talk about, and the psychotics and my diagnosis and sort of, can I do a solo video is my first solo video. I do have some guests lined up more guests lined up. So there's going to be more upsides in the pipeline. You know, I was encouraged that we were on, we were recommended on feed spot. It was, we were wanting to recommend the channels to watch in 2021. You know, I'm getting good feedback on my YouTube videos.

1 (11m 28s):
I'm getting good feedback from people, from people who have been guests that they want. So I want to continue making episodes because schizophrenia is marginalized or ostracized or stigmatized or discriminated against, you know, I want to educate people and I want to bring it. And I want to do my best to bring schizophrenia into the light and out darkness because it is a devastating illness. You know, it can, it, it takes away a large part of the quality of life. You can, you know, you know, people, can they say you can lead a normal life?

1 (12m 13s):
Well, not really, because if you're not psychotic that you've got to deal with the side effects and you might have to deal with the psychotic symptoms that self-possessed, so that's not really normal. It kind of, it's normal. If you kind of forget about the schizophrenia and you kind of forget about them and just say, and don't, you know, don't bother them and they'll get on with their life. Like it's not a normal life. So yeah. So, you know, thank you for, you know, my listeners and people watching on YouTube, you know, I'm doing it for you.

1 (12m 54s):
I, you know, it's also, I also produces videos, fellow sufferers, just to show you that you're not alone as there's a voice out that as voices out there, you know, we will find the same battle, you know? So let's have some hope, you know, plant based diet. I reckon that's a definite plus. And if we've got a nasal spray medication, these are good things, you know? So, yeah. So that is all I'm going to sign off now and please do subscribe. And like this video

0 (13m 35s):
Can't afford to let you take off your hair when you touch my skin.

0 (14m 50s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>.