1 (30s):
Hello and welcome to another episode of Interview with schizophrenia. My name is Duncan. I'm your host. And today I had the great pleasure of having Zuri with me from the United States. How does that feel? How are you doing?

2 (46s):
I'm fine. Okay.

1 (49s):
That's great. Fantastic. So XOE is there any, is one of the younger participants of this Interview show, but she does have a diagnosis? My, I believe that that message is Schizoaffective. Is that right?

2 (1m 4s):
Schizoaffective with depression.

1 (1m 9s):
Sure. So why don't you tell us how it started for you, how you got diagnosed, what was the leading up to the diagnosis where you would go through? Why don't you tell us a little bit about that?

2 (1m 26s):
Well, as a younger child, I experienced a lot of things. And during that time I had a lot of intrusive thoughts. And as the years progressed, I just started showing more symptoms, such as paranoia and paranoid delusions and whatnot. And it didn't take until I got to high school and I was in a really bad psychotic episode. And it's just like, my entire personality was just shut down.

2 (2m 10s):
And that was the first time I went to a mental hospital and that was the starting of my diagnosis. But during that time for a while, it was just a lot of misdiagnoses first. They said I had depression and anxiety. I was like, yeah, I can get that. I can get that. Then they said I had bipolar disorder. I was like, I guess I can get that. And they said, I had schizophrenia. It was like, I don't know about that. Cause it's like, at that time, I just thought, you know, I just thought having this, not having schizophrenia, it just one of the scarier things to me, mainly because of how it's portrayed.

2 (3m 6s):
And it's just, I don't know. I didn't want to accept it, even though it made sense. And when I finally got my, you know, final diagnosis by which was, you know, consulted by my side quietest and my personal therapist, and they said, well, it sounds like you have a Schizoaffective with depression since my psychotic episodes and depressive symptoms, aren't, you know, consistent, they described it as like a bipolar disorder, but, you know, with psychotic, with psychotic tendencies, as well as it's being accompanied by depression, since I do suffer from suicidal thoughts.

2 (3m 58s):
And when they said that, I could definitely understand it. But you know, since then it's been almost two years since the diagnosis and I'm trying, you know, to cope, but not all the days are going to be the best for me.

1 (4m 20s):
You know, I think what in a schizophrenia is scary when it's diagnosed and wonder one of the aspects, which is quite scary is that it's a lifelong illness. There's no cure, you know, cause your, your young girls. And if somebody tells you a Yeah, is there a, you've got schizophrenia, that's quite a big thing, to be honest with you as a nurse. I mean, you know, I mean, you know, my personal opinion is, is that your still young and it's difficult to predict what's going to happen in 10 years or five years time. Did you know what I mean? I mean, it's difficult for them to know to be Sure, but yeah, I mean it's yeah, it's, it's a difficult one, but so, so tell me, you had, you are going through paranoia and delusions.

1 (5m 12s):
I mean, tell me what sort of things you are going for.

2 (5m 16s):
I'm so when I started having the paranoid delusions for, I want to say almost a decade, I was being bullied by my peers and nobody was listening to me. And the main occurrence would be, they're talking about me, they're talking about me, they're talking about me, you know, and what would be accompanied with that would be mainly like shaking, like mild shaking and then accompanied with that would be homicidal thoughts because it's like, I just felt really unsafe.

2 (5m 59s):
Obviously with the paranoia, I just felt extremely unsafe. And I constantly thought that I was going to be, you know, attacked because I did get into fights often to defend myself. And it's just not a good time, you know,

1 (6m 20s):
Was, was the now and the, obviously the billing, what was happening and also, but it was mixed in with a delusion. So it was, it was a stronger feeling that it really wasn't a reality. Is that correct?

2 (6m 37s):
Whenever I have paranoid delusions, S w surrounding they're talking about me, or I feel like I'm about to get hurt, I have to do something. They absolutely feel like reality. Like all of my delusions feel like, you know, it's actually, you know, happening. Like I had a brief period where I was extremely paranoid about dying to the point of having panic attacks and having really a really bad sleep schedule am I would only get like four to like three hours of sleep.

2 (7m 21s):
It would be that bad. And I was, you know, set on like, I'm going to die in my sleep. I'm going to die. And my sleep, I can't sleep they're would be times where I'd have religious delusions. And it would be like, there is a demon inside of me. There's an angel inside of me. And they're talking to me, there was a brief period where I thought that I was an angel myself and that I was set on the world to, you know, save people. But then it went from, I have to save these people to a very pessimistic view of the world. So it's just, whenever I experienced a delusion, they always feel real.

2 (8m 5s):
Or at least to me, and I would get extremely angry whenever people told me when it, when I'm mentioning my a religious delusions, I would get extremely angry when people told me that, Oh, you know, they're not real. Right. Cause its like, it, it feels so real and it makes me feel like they are telling me that I'm lying and I see it. That just doesn't sit right with me. But it's like, you know, I'm not, I'm not delusional. States I can understand. Like that was just a moment of psychosis instead of Yeah this is just awful. Yeah. You know, like I don't know how to explain it properly.

1 (8m 49s):
Yeah, no, no, no. I understand because you know, it was like, like the world we live in like the pay today, life, like you're going to school or going to work, whatever, you know, it's not, it's kind of like an allusion, you know, it's kind of the truth, but it's not the whole truth. And the aspect of the spiritual side is also true, but we deny it and we don't accept it, but it is part of the world. So, you know, when you are having delusions spiritual or religious delusions, there is, it is, it is also a schizophrenia sick, you know, and sort of a, a, a delusion, but there's also a real site to it as well.

1 (9m 32s):
You know, that's what, that's my personal belief because, because the way the world that we live in, it's not the whole truth or do you not, you know what I mean?

2 (9m 42s):
Yeah. I can get what you're saying.

1 (9m 46s):
Yeah. So, I mean, I can not Yeah because it's not as clear cut and saying someone is schizophrenia therefore, or that delusions or false. It's not as clear-cut as that. I don't know. I don't think So, you know, I think there's, you know, there's a little bit of truth and, and everything really. So, so tell me, sorry, what are you? Are you on medication now?

2 (10m 19s):
I recently stopped the medication by my own choice because of the, what is it called now? I'm at a blank for the word because of the side effects. I mainly stopped because of the side effects. And because I grow a tolerance to my medication a lot, I would change medications very frequently and it wouldn't even be a year with them mainly because I would experience no change or my symptoms would worsen.

2 (11m 4s):
So back in March, I said, I just can't do this anymore. 'cause it was an extremely bad depressives Episode and like every day I was like crying my eyes out. I was like, I just can't do this anymore. This medication isn't working, I would rather, you know, do extensive therapy rather than, you know, take meds that won't work for me. So even though I recommend medication, I don't think it's for everybody, you know,

1 (11m 36s):
But how, how many, you haven't actually told you're age, but you're a young teenager. And and you've been, it was for 10 years. Is that right? Okay.

2 (11m 49s):
Yes. A that's

1 (11m 54s):
Quite a bit of experience for you. So how, how many years were you a medication?

2 (11m 59s):
I didn't start getting medicated until two years ago, but I experienced the symptoms as a young child.

1 (12m 10s):
So you've been in the health system since 2018, but you've had the symptoms for a while. Okay, fine. Yeah. I mean,

2 (12m 22s):
You

1 (12m 22s):
Know, the medication is a difficult one a bit. They just psychiatry to agree to you stop in the medication. What did you do? And they're just psychiatry. Just, you know, did they let you start taking a medication or no,

2 (12m 38s):
I agree. Neither did my therapist, but he did say since you, no, I'm at my age that I should be able to make decisions for myself. He did warn me about my symptoms, you know, coming back or my symptoms, you know, possibly worsening regarding my paranoia because it does get extreme and it's like, Hmm, I understand that. But I'm willing to take the risk because I really don't like the side effects that anti-psychotics have on me, especially since I'm, you know, this young, like it's for me, it's just too much for me to handle that.

1 (13m 25s):
I know you mean, I mean, I've been on medication for like about 20 years and I think the side effects still affect me now, 20 years later, they still have a big effect on me. So I, I know where you're coming from. They, they are very powerful and it is, you know, it's kind of, I guess, I guess, I guess with you, it's a question of wait and see, because when you get older, perhaps your mental health symptoms might subside, you know, at that might, that might be the case.

1 (14m 5s):
You know, I think it's dangerous for them to diagnose you with a life-long disorder at such young age. I think that is quite dangerous. You know, what did you think about that?

2 (14m 16s):
I don't think it's dangerous because it's, I don't think it's dangerous. The only thing that I probably disagree with was the medicating part. Cause I'm, I'm very self-aware, but at the same time, my symptoms does get the ability rating so I can understand why they want it to medicate me. So I couldn't, you know, and be able to function better in social situations and, you know, function better in life because like there would be times where I just wouldn't get out of bed.

2 (14m 56s):
I wouldn't take a shower, things like that. It's just, I understand medication at times, but I also understand diagnosis 'cause it just gets a better a hold of, you know, what's your dealing with a, for lack of better word as a psychiatrist and as a therapist, because I know that there are children younger than me who deal with the exact same, if not similar, you know, things that I do regarding, you know, mental health. And it's like, I don't think it's dangerous, but I do think it's used to better understand, which makes sense to me, but medication definitely.

2 (15m 51s):
I don't know. Yeah. I don't think that medication should be okay.

1 (15m 55s):
Why did you come across as a yeah, I was just going to say you come across as an intelligent, smart young lady. What avenues have you looked him for? Alternative therapy, you know, overseeing, but not, you don't want to get medicated. What else have you looked into to help you? Okay.

2 (16m 17s):
The thing that currently helps me is my personal therapist. I feel, you know, safer when ever I'm in. I feel safer whenever I get to speak to somebody one-on-one versus, you know, speaking, you know, in a group setting about my issues versus, you know, speaking to people like my parents or my friends about my issues, mainly because it it's just, what if they try to use this against me type of thing. They won't understand type of thing. They'll think I'm crazy type of thing.

2 (16m 58s):
Like it's, I feel like it's more of a personal preference, but it's also a, I'm looking out for myself because I don't want history to repeat itself. Okay.

1 (17m 16s):
Okay. Because I mean, you know, I think I, I, you know, kind of agree with the medication only, it does say much. And then you've got to look in other aspects of your life to help keep your mental health, you know, like create like a art. I think, I mean, it's just something to, to solve your mind. Did you know what I mean? Something, whatever it can be like, I don't know.

2 (17m 47s):
Are you talking about like coping,

1 (17m 51s):
I mean you talk in school. Exactly. It's kind of the skills. Yeah.

2 (17m 56s):
Since I'm at home, most of the time, the main thing that I usually do is just, you know, play the Sims and that's it. And, and that's really, you know, soothing for me on top of that, I do world building in creative writing and that, you know, it makes things a lot more easier to deal with because whenever I get on the topic of creative writing or whatever, John rhe, I'm writing in that, at that time, I just get really excited and that's all I can think about. So it's just, it's I guess you can call it therapy, but not everything you know is lasting, you know,

1 (18m 42s):
But that, that is kind of therapy. I think. I mean, you're expressing yourself, you are expressing your internal self to the outside world, you know? So that is that's important when, when you go in for a schizophrenia is a process where reality and unreality get mixed up or, you know, it's important to let your true self come out of your body. It's like, it's kind of like a, it's like I'm choosing in your mind. You know, I think, I think that it is, I think that it is useful. So tell me what you see, you, you do creative writing.

1 (19m 24s):
Is that something you want to continue as a career as soon as you get older? Or is that yeah,

2 (19m 32s):
I would, but I feel like I wouldn't be good enough for people to, you know, actually purchase anything that I wrote. I like my work. I do. I think I'm good at it, but I'm not, you know, Stephen King type of Good, you know?

1 (19m 59s):
Yeah. But that's, it's all about, you know, not everybody is Stephen King because the only one Stephen King, you know, in the world, you know, and if you've got a mental health condition, it's a, it's a things, a little more difficult, but people do you want to hear your story? You know, they want to hear what you've got to say and your take on the world with your experiences in it. You know, that's, that's a valid as an important as everybody else. And if you gotta create a spot, you know, you can, you know that that's, that's your thing. Rarely, you know? So tell me, what are your, what are your hopes for a future with considering you in your diagnosis?

1 (20m 50s):
What are your, are you optimistic? I mean, what is, what is your outlook on life now?

2 (20m 59s):
I do have a nihilistic sense of view regarding my future in the world itself, but there are times where I'm like, okay, well I do want to do this eventually. Like I do want to get married. I do want a sort of family. I used to do want to have a successful life and lineage, but it's like at the same time, when I think about my mental health and the way I operate, it just feels like it's not, you know, attainable. Like I have trauma surrounding adults, especially when adults get confrontational.

2 (21m 45s):
And that is a big thing that I, that I try to, you know, not react in a negative way with, but it just feels like, you know, with people in general, it feels like as I get older, I'm still going to have like, you know, that repressed within me and, you know, everybody has different breaking points. And I just feel like if people still ask for the way that people do, which will be inevitable, that I'm still going to, you know, lash out or there is going to be something that somebody says that triggers, you know, a flashback or that triggers a Episode or, you know, it's just, I just feel like there's so much right now.

2 (22m 42s):
And in this moment it feels like it won't change because every time I feel as if it's getting better or if I'm at a good point in my life, it just feels like it all just comes crashing down. Like, and a lot of times it feels like I can't do much about it and I do hope for the best, but at the same time, I'm not expecting much.

1 (23m 16s):
Yeah. I know. I know. Kind of what you mean. You've got to have that, that cynicals dark side at the edge view of life as well. If you've got a mental health condition, because you know, it's not all peaches, a nice cream, you know, there is a dark side to the live, you know, when, when you are in your own mind is attacking you. You've got a, you've got to realize you've got to be on your at times. I'd definitely, I agree with you, you know, but you know, I think, I think mental health is kind of like an altered state that you go into.

1 (23m 58s):
So I can't give you a different life experience to like a normal person. You know, like a, like a normal woman might want to be like a Stepford wife or something. Whereas if you've got mental health condition, you've got like a different outlook on life because you are that different. Perhaps you can see things for what they really are. Would you want me to cause a lot of life isn't a lesion. There's a lot of 'em what was sold a lie because the truth people or people are afraid of to truth, you know, I don't know. I don't know. You know what I mean? Did you, do you have, have you had the hallucinated or something like that?

2 (24m 38s):
Yes. The first time I hallucinated was when I was 15 and I was in a really bad depressive episode and I was trying to go to sleep and it was just like three voices. And they're just like, you're stupid, you're ugly. You're fat, kill yourself, kill yourself, kill yourself. I'm like, God damn, let me, let me go to sleep. Or at least one at the time, you know? But, but since then it has been, you know, off and on again, you know, hallucinations, the main one was a black figures and it's like, I knew that it was like, I know that like shadowing people aren't, you know, run in from door to door and everything like that.

2 (25m 32s):
But more recently it's been like fleas biting me. And that has been extremely uncomfortable as you could imagine. Cause it's like, I feel a flea biting me and I look at my arm. There is nothing there. I'm like, get off, get off, you know, it's just the last time I had a bug related, tactile hallucination. I was like trying to go to sleep. And there, it felt like there was a Roach crawling all over me. She was like, get off, get off, get off in like sitting in there or panicking right next to my mom. Cause we were driving and she's like, so, so what's what's wrong.

2 (26m 16s):
Like I was like, there's a bug on me. My mom has to get off. It has to get off. It's like, if there is nothing on you, there's nothing on you is just like, but it doesn't feel like the truth. Cause it's like, you can feel it. It's just, I just feel like that's just one of the worst things. Cause it's just, especially when you can't do it. Cause it's just like your trying so hard. Like where is it? Get off, get off, get off in it. It won't get off,

1 (26m 43s):
You know, you know, I'm serious about, I feel that it's a little truth in everything that we experience and even, even a schizophrenia, as you know, there is a little treat for me because 'cause, that's just the way the world is, you know? But yeah, I saw, I don't know a tactile or at least the nation's I, I kind of had them a little bit, but yeah, it's just somewhat Yeah irritating. Okay. So I is, sorry, I think we can wrap it up here. Thank you for coming and speaking to me, you know, a lot of people are checking out of the interview, you've got to be quite brave and balsy to, to, to have it Interview one-to-one and there would be on the internet, you know, it was quite a ballsy thing to do.

1 (27m 39s):
So I thank you for that because you know, and you know, well I've found you, there are other people and you're the only one is basically got through all of the stages to come and speak to me. So I think that's fantastic, you know, and may or may be, you know, a check up on you and next year we could have another chat if you, if you would like to do that, I'm I'm absolutely. You have the absolute pleasure to talk to you. You, you know, so it would be, it would be wordy. I think I figured it's important that, you know, we, we speak again to see how you're doing and you could have further reflections and just have another chat.

1 (28m 26s):
What I'm going to do. I'm going to play some you, did you say you like, was it, was that we'll talk about the music, did you like, okay, so I'm going to play some fun, is it at the end of the Australia? And yeah, so that's great. So thank you very much. Sorry. And we'll chat again.

0 (28m 51s):
Alright. See you in a year.

0 (29m 40s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>.