Duncan (30s):
Hello, and welcome to another episode of 'Interview with a schizophrenic. I am your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I have the great pleasure of having Jen with me. She is from Michigan in the United States of America. She's in her early thirties and has a diagnosis of Schizoaffective disorder, depressive type, as well as anxiety. So hello Jen, welcome to the show. How are you doing today?

Jen (58s):
Good. Thank you so much for having me

Duncan (1m 1s):
Well, it's absolutely my pleasure. So Jen what I want to ask, talk about is, I would like if you could give the listeners an understanding of how your mental health journey began, how you got your diagnosis, did you go into hospital? So if you'd like to talk about that, that'd be fantastic.

Jen (1m 22s):
Sure. Well, I started having symptoms when I was pretty young as a child, I would see things and hear things, but I live with my grandparents and my grandmother kind of explained it away as either my imagination or the ghost that lives in her house. She had a cute little name for him. So anytime. Yeah. Anything odd thing, she kind of called me down with. Oh, it's just Henry it's. Okay. So I know it sounds really silly, but it actually did help as a child cause you're like, okay, this is okay. So I could be a little less scared, but you know, it was not quite as intense as it got as I started getting older.

Duncan (2m 6s):
Well, it's a tough one. You, you saw things when you were a child.

Jen (2m 13s):
Yeah. I would see like shadow people is the best way to describe it. And you know, I look out my window and someone would be waving at me and I, you know, hear whispers. So, you know, grandma, it was easy for grandma to say, Oh, that's a ghost. I mean, yeah. Anytime something weird happens.

Duncan (2m 36s):
Yeah. Yeah, exactly. I mean it does, obviously when you, when you have a diagnosis, that's not the only thing. It does link him because I also has a child. I would say when I got to about the age of 15 or 16, my mind was full of chatter. And it's only looking back now that I think it was a cumulation of hearing voices, which I've never really understood as a child. So I think, I think when you get older, you look back and you think you can recognize what was happening. So yeah, that's a kind of a scary,

Jen (3m 10s):
Oh yeah. Sorry. So as I got older, obviously things got a little more intense, but unfortunately the background I come from is a bit old fashioned conservative kind of background. So you just pretend everything's fine all the time. So no matter what's happening to you, everything's fine. Which is why, you know, we're having this very serious conversation and I'll still like laugh from time to time because that's just how my family deals with things. Everything's fine. Wonderful. People are having a grand old time at funerals, which I've always thought is kind of messed up. But yeah.

Jen (3m 50s):
So when it got to the point as a teenager, but it was hospitalized because I did attempt suicide unsuccessfully obviously, but it's okay. But again, that was another thing that was just kind of brushed away. Like, Oh, it was just a momentary thing. Don't worry about it. My, they didn't really want to do anything psychological because it wasn't that it was just, I was a teenager, you know, that's and that was kind of their reasoning. So I to get around, you know, the lack of that kind of stuff, I just ended up trying to busy myself, if that makes sense.

Jen (4m 32s):
Like, you know, I would have a, like three screens on my computer going and then a video game going at the same time and I'd have headphones listening to music and talking to friends all at the same time, which I guess kind of helped develop skills of multi-tasking, but it was just kind of a way to try and like keep myself distracted from what I was hearing and seeing. And then I got out of there as soon as I graduated high school, I moved up to Michigan. I was not, I was originally from more of a Southern area and I moved up to Michigan, had a friend here. So I came here and unfortunately I, instead of seeking help, like thrill normal way, I just became a bit of a party girl and just drank a lot with, I was a weight just so that I would just drink it.

Jen (5m 31s):
So a ways,

Duncan (5m 33s):
Yeah. I, I I've, I've been there as well when I was in my twenties.

Jen (5m 39s):
I think it's common for people in our situation to just kind of be like, Oh, I can take care of this. I'll just, self-medicate spoiler alert. That's not if for any younger people listening, that's not the answer. It wasn't until I eventually stopped that lifestyle. I met a quite wonderful person. Who's now my husband, who's very supportive. And the only time I drink now is socially with my sister-in-law and that's like, you know, a glass of something not, but yeah, he's pretty cool, I guess, but it wasn't.

Jen (6m 27s):
And so up here we have, we're a bit of a misfit group of friends that I have in the, we have two people who are a bit older than us. They're about 10 years older than I am a and we call ourselves a little, like we're a little family because we all kind of have like, I have problems with my family. I don't really talk to them as much. And when I do, we don't get along. So my quote, unquote, parents up here recognize something has been wrong. Like they could kind of tell. And so they kind of was like, okay, I think we should talk about this. And I think we should see if someone and I was very against it. Cause again, I pretend like everything's wrong.

Jen (7m 8s):
Everything's funny. I'll just hide everything with humor. But they were able to kind of see past that. It'd be like, no, you're going, we're going to take you somewhere. And I will the quote unquote data of our group. He was like, I will go with you. So for my first, quite a few sessions, he went with me and that's where everything kind of gave out. And I got the diagnosis that I have now. And that was a couple of years ago. So

Duncan (7m 40s):
I mean, you know, that's kind of, I heard some people say they got diagnosed when they were like 17 more people get diagnosed in their twenties. There are some people who get diagnosed in their late thirties, but you know, it's a, I guess it, I guess probably is probably slightly late. I mean, you're probably suffering for quite a long time without being treated. How, how, how is, how was the treatment for you? Did it, was it effective?

Jen (8m 7s):
It was I a sh I did another terrible joke. I say I'm on a cocktail, but that cocktail took a quite a long time to iron out. And I know that during that time there was some issues. I'm a very, again, fortunate for my friends who are very understanding of that when I'm like, I can't right now, I'm sorry. Or they, the check out and be like, Hey, you haven't said anything in a while. What's going on. And I also, my work is very understanding of mental issues. My boss has a daughter who's in a similar situation. So when I'm like, I'm going into the server room, I just need to do this. It was okay for me to do that.

Jen (8m 48s):
And not everyone has that, which is terrible, but it took a lot of time to get the medications. And for the most part they're pretty good. Now sometimes have to adjust a little bit, but there was a, something, there was a pill I was on called Geodon and that messed me up. I know it's a good for a lot of people, but it was a really dark, dark time where I tend to self harm, unfortunately, which I have it in a while, but Geodon brought me back to that space and, and, you know, it's pretty embarrassing. I would say for it felt, well, I shouldn't say it is.

Jen (9m 28s):
It's not, but it felt embarrassing for a woman of my age to have to have her husband hide things from her. So she wouldn't cut herself. So.

Duncan (9m 40s):
Okay, fine. I mean, it's not an easy thing. What your game through, you know, is a, is a severe condition. So you're always going to have ups and downs. There's always going to be times in your life where it's going to be difficult because it is a battle. So I don't think that's a shame if you do. You know what I mean? It's a battle, it's a daily battle. So sometimes you win sometimes because difficult, you know, that's, that's what I would say. So I, Y w when you said something interesting to me, the idea was, what is your occupation?

Jen (10m 22s):
I work at it. So like a system is administrator.

Duncan (10m 26s):
I also work in Lightsey. I found the interesting. So did you, did you work, did you work, did you have a break in your career? Did you kind of working since?

Jen (10m 39s):
No, I I've had a couple of breaks. I, I didn't get into it until a little later than probably most I was in my mid twenties, but like my early twenties, I just kind of did whatever, you know, a and I did have a break after the job. I had a previous to, this was not the best environment not to get on a soapbox or anything, but as a woman in it, sometimes it's not the easiest position to be in over here and my neck of the woods. So I was in a place that was, it kind of felt like it was ran by frat boy, like tossing around footballs and things like that.

Jen (11m 22s):
And as in my voice was very unheard in that kind of environment, because I was the only woman who worked there. So that was a pro I got, go ahead.

Duncan (11m 36s):
The kind of environment in 20 and 20, you know, 2010 on with the wedding, even in a lot last 20 years, it's kind of, it shouldn't be that, you know, we've, we've, we've, you know what I mean? It's just with the rest of the opposite of the right to, to, to, to object that I also say the occupation of it is office-based. So sometimes it can be toxic, but so I guess, you know, sometimes, sometimes what I find is the people work in it.

Duncan (12m 16s):
They're not as they might not understand people as well as other people do. Yeah. So that's interesting you work in, I'd say, so you've got a kind of a logical brain, I guess.

Jen (12m 32s):
Yeah. And I think that actually helped food. I shouldn't say it helps me my condition, but I think it does because after the fact I'm able to go back and be like, okay, here's why you were wrong in your mind. Like, or the voices are wrong. Let's think about this. And that's something my therapist and I have worked with a lot is trying to use the rational part of my brain when the unrest funnel part is taking over and kind of beating me down.

Duncan (12m 58s):
Yes, definitely. I definitely, I think, I think the logic helps. If you have, if you're in a delusion, you can call it a logic, your way out of it, you can say, well, you know, I think there's bugs in my bedroom, but where exactly are they, you know, you can w you know, where's, where's the power supplies that are they being transmitted out to a vibe. I mean, you can, you can kind of work out, holds in the, in the delusion, which I think can help as well.

Jen (13m 33s):
Yeah. That's exactly kind of what my therapist said is like, okay, try and find those holes with and go from there.

Duncan (13m 45s):
So tell me, Jen you said that you're hearing voices. What sort of voices do you hear?

Jen (13m 55s):
I hear a variety of voices, but they're all pretty negative depending on the situation, but I'm in a row. I have a lot of anxiety about the people who are important to me. I had such a weird upbringing of being kind of a pass around child. And like, I never really saw my dad and those kinds of things. So I have a lot of anxiety about that. So I have, you know, it's very much a constant battle of having to deal with like, tenors of voices telling you that you're worthless and none of your friends actually like you, and they only really hang out with you because of your husband, that kind of thing, even though clearly that's not true.

Jen (14m 35s):
Cause otherwise, why would they take you to get there?

Duncan (14m 40s):
Yeah. The voices, voices are not true, you know, generally 90% of the time they are negative and just, and just nasty little things. So yeah, that, that's just the way they are. They say w Y I mean, what do you, do you think the voices are hallucinations and bats all it is, or do you think of something more to it?

Jen (15m 12s):
I go back and forth on that to be perfectly honest with you. Like, I haven't, I've, I'm someone who wants to know the answer to everything, because I think that's also a part of our logical it brains is why is this broken? I'm going to find out, I don't care if it doesn't need fix, I'm going to figure it out. Anyway, the surface I've been using 10 years, I'm still going to fix it. But yeah, like I, I also have a lot of, you know, anxiety and there is some PTSD from some incidents in my younger days. So that kind of also plays in, like, I have a pretty irrational fear of tall men that I have a very good friend who is a tall man.

Jen (15m 54s):
And even though I've known him for years, he's very wonderful when I'm first around him again, after like not seeing him for a couple of days, it I'm, I'm terrified. And I hide behind are a quote-unquote dad, because I'm, the voices are just so loud and screaming, like he's going to hurt you. And he's going to do all these things to you. Oh my God, what are you doing? You stupid tart, get out of here. That's the kind of things that like scream in my head. So that kind of also like whatever the situation is, is how if I'm working, it's because, you know, I am not good enough for this job, or you're just a girl. You shouldn't be doing that. Which, you know, obviously it's, it's, whatever my situation is, is how they're going to attack me

Duncan (16m 37s):
In a way. It's like, if I could translation of your, of your fears and negative anxieties into voices, if you know what I mean, it's like a, it's a, it's like, it's like what you're feeling in your most anxious and you're in a negative way. And then that's translated and the voices which you can hear. Yeah. I mean, yeah, it's not, I, I can, obviously, it's not a nice thing to experience and I kind of said it before, but when the worst thing about the voices is that you can explain, you can, you can tell someone, but you can't, they can't experience it when they can't experience what you're going through.

Duncan (17m 28s):
So, yeah. That's okay. Do you enjoy reading books? Jen

Jen (17m 36s):
I do. I don't read it as much as I used to, but I do really enjoy books and I played a lot, I guess I feel like a lot of RPGs, which are kind of like books. Yeah. I mean,

Duncan (17m 50s):
And not something that the reason I ask is a few, a few reasons. One thing, sometimes I know that people with psychotic diagnosis find it difficult to read long periods of text, but sometimes I, but there are times when you can read and it also can be very helpful. You can read books about your illness or books about, you know, about topics, which can help you, I think, or chess fiction, but just for escapism. So I know, and also these days, like you say RPGs, because we have so many, there's so many different types of entertainment that books have gets all relegated to the dusty old bookshelf in the corner and, and I'm not used at all.

Jen (18m 47s):
Yeah. This is kind of sad.

Duncan (18m 52s):
Yes. I guess I, Bobby, you know, I like something like, like before, when I was younger, I had zero insight into, into my diagnosis, but when I read books on it, I think that helped me to give me the insight to give me a understanding of what the condition is. And, you know, it's like a comfort and you, you realize that, okay. There's reasons for what I'm feeling, you know? So I think that's a good thing. Yeah. I mean, I, I saw ask another question.

Duncan (19m 33s):
Do you have any favorite films that portray mental illness?

Jen (19m 39s):
I, I don't watch a ton of movies because I can't sit still very well without like actively doing something. Cause that's when things I feel get loud. So I don't watch a lot of films. I had, I mean, I watched Donnie Darko. That was pretty good. But no movie when it comes to, I don't have the ability to sit and watch. So I don't.

Duncan (20m 6s):
Okay. Is that easier?

Jen (20m 11s):
I'm sorry. <inaudible>

Duncan (20m 13s):
<inaudible> medication.

Jen (20m 18s):
It might be, I've never been diagnosed with that or anything, but it's just, if I, if I sit and do nothing, I know it's going to get loud. I won't be able to distract myself cause I still use distraction as a mechanism to ignore like the voices and the things I see out of the corner of my eyes and those kinds of things.

Duncan (20m 37s):
So do you, so are you hearing voices like today and now let's say a daily occurrence happening to you? Like every day it is daily.

Jen (20m 48s):
It's not nearly as bad since I've been on medication. I just have, it normally starts pretty low unless something gets to me and ramps me up and, or like I encounter something I'm afraid of, or I get an idea in my head and then it just kind of like, I try to think of a better word other than catamari, because that's a, no, one's gonna know what that means, but like, you know, it grows like you're like, okay, I have this idea in my head and now I can get a focus on it and everything's going to get bigger and bigger and louder and louder until I can sort through it and be like, no you're being irrational.

Duncan (21m 22s):
Okay. What I was going to say is, I don't know if you've heard about this, but they did a study on people hearing voices, voices. So in America and the Western Europe that were all quite hostile and they're all quiet, the quite negative, the quite oppressive, but they did also have the study of voices in the East, like in the, in countries, in Asia. And they found that it was, the voices were less harsh.

Duncan (22m 4s):
They were less negative and more kind of softer. And, and a fairy is, is that your voices are localized to where you live. And in India, when a country is more spiritual, they have a more spiritual understanding of, of psychosis. And so therefore there's not such a, a, a fair about it. So I think that more people would talk it's a more accepted in like, not, maybe not in the establishment, in the upper, in the general, the common people, I would say where, whereas obviously in Western European, America, things, things a different way, we're kind of much more consumer corporate capitalist culture where, where we don't accept the spirituality.

Duncan (23m 5s):
It's not, it's, it's a fringe subject. It's not really, it's not really something that is in the mainstream. So if we experience something that is out of the normal spectrum, we just get I ostracized and stigmatized by that. What do you think that is? What you think about that?

Jen (23m 32s):
I think it's insanely fascinating. That's so cool to think about like how this, I don't even know if I want to use this word, but I I'm terrible with words. I do apologize. I'm gonna say anomaly, like is manifested here versus in other cultures, like, that's so neat to think about like, okay, this is how it affects me and how it affects someone on the other side of the world is really kind of,

Duncan (24m 2s):
Yeah. And also I think, you know, there's more to schizophrenia, Schizoaffective, the myths. It's not just my opinion is not just a, a medical disorder. I think there's more to it than that. I think there's more of a, perhaps a spiritual aspect to it. I don't know if you think about that.

Jen (24m 32s):
I do a I and I, I agree with you. I there's, there's something else there, but admittedly, I don't know what that is. And that's also can be kind of frustrating cause you're like, what else could it be? Especially like seeing it, how it affects those and more spiritual countries, like what is that mean kind of thing. So, you know what I mean?

Duncan (24m 59s):
You'll have the answer by next week. I don't know how the brain works. The kind of like it processes things in the background and then

Jen (25m 11s):
Yeah, you kind of like, Oh, this is a day. Like, you kind of you'll think about it. Like, you know, you leave work and there's a problem with bringing the back of their head. You make dinner and you take a shower and then you're like slamming your head down in the soap. Like, I know what this,

Duncan (25m 31s):
Okay. What I want to ask you, have you experienced discrimination?

Jen (25m 44s):
So I would say yeah, back home. Yes. Back where by families from, again, it's not something I talk about very much, but I did try to broach the subject with my mother and it was a disaster. She's like, you're being silly. You're being dramatic. This is a thing, you know? So I, I wouldn't say, I'd say I'm pretty protected from the particular group of friends that I have since they're so very, they're wonderful. Like they're very understanding and you can say, I'm not all right. And they'll be like, okay, let's not, we'll figure it out.

Jen (26m 27s):
So I'm very, very fortunate in that way. And in my younger days, I don't remember much from my early twenties because I just was blitzed out of my mind so I could have been, but it's mostly, it's mostly in that Southern area where there's the, the pretenses. You have to live it by.

Duncan (26m 54s):
Okay. My final question is with, is there anything you would like to talk about, which I have not asked already? Something which you'd like to bring up and just, you know, like to say to the listeners it's is there anything like that,

Jen (27m 16s):
I guess as an older person kind of looking back, what do you think would be, let me ask you this question. I was already like put her down and you, but maybe you could help me with this answer. What kind of resources do you think would be best for kids in situations? Kind of like my own, where there's nowhere to reach out to 'cause everyone has the mask, like, how do you think, especially, well, nowadays you have the internet too. So like what resources would you recommend for younger listeners who might not know where to turn to for help? Because they can't tell their parents,

Duncan (27m 53s):
You know? I mean, like I say, internet is, is the best thing out there. You can contact people from all around the world with all different types of experiences, you know, they can, if a younger person, they can contact me or a phone, they can call me a call from this podcast, you know, and I'll speak to them, you know, or they can, you know, that's, there's forums on the internet, mental health forums, where you can speak to people that is

Jen (28m 27s):
The two separate. It's a very wonderful,

Duncan (28m 31s):
Yeah. I mean the, in Reddit, there's lots of, there's lots of humanities, like you say, and, you know, I mean, there's also a, in the UK, we have, we have various help points. Like we have the Samaritans and we also have Childline as well. So Charlyne is a, is a support line for children in trouble. I'm not sure if there's one in America like that, but you know, fingerprints or that is that's important for the kids to, and, and, and it's not like, yeah, I think, you know, kids, kids are very, they're very, what's the word that kind of, they can take a lot of punishment and still be okay.

Duncan (29m 21s):
I think, but it doesn't mean they have to, and, you know, any strange experiences. I think, I think like some tech talk, I follow a person who's got mental health issues and that, you know, like they're like a 16, 17, and they just express themselves a few Music. And, and as such great thing to do is to express yourself for your Music for your, for your clothes or your hair styles, and just to get your emotions out. And I think that's so important, you know, because that's kind of, it's kind of like an emotional oppression.

Duncan (30m 1s):
If you're, if you're feeling that way, when you're a child, I think that's the most support thing today, you know, just to, you know, and, and it's not all doom and gloom. There's a lot of positivity out there and it's just about kind of moving into the right direction, I think.

Jen (30m 22s):
Yeah. I think that's even good for like some of us who are diagnosed older, like there's communities online and people are so accepting and want to help each other out. So it's really nice that in this day and age, people can get together and do that. I think that makes a huge difference so that others don't follow in some of the footsteps that us older generation who did not have those at an early age kind of fell into,

Duncan (30m 54s):
Hey, it's definitely, I th I, you know, internet is wonderful in many ways for, for people with mental health conditions, we really can have a voice, you know, with which we didn't say 20, 30 years ago, we didn't have that voice. That's fantastic. I got a job. Let's wrap it up here. I just want to ask you, is there any quick, the type of music that you prefer a, a Joan rhe or a particular type of song, is that okay?

Jen (31m 26s):
So I speak a second language. I speak Japanese. My grandfather was stationed over there. So growing up, he thought it was important for children to have a second language. And he's like, this is the one I know this is what I'm going to teach you. So I listened to a lot of Jay rock to help keep my language skills up. Cause I don't have a lot of people to talk to you in Japanese. So I really enjoy that kind of stuff. And it also has the occupation of my mind, where I have to sit there and really listen and really like, okay, translate it kind of on the spot.

Duncan (31m 58s):
That's excellent. That's like, okay, I'll see what I can do. I'll see what I can do. I can see if I can find some Jaguar and played at the end so that, so it's been a real pleasure to speak to a feature. Really a nice talk with, I hope you enjoyed being interviewed by me and hopefully we'll speak again. I do say I do have plans to try and bring people back in the next year or so, and maybe the top of some sort of a one-on-one or group discussions about

0 (32m 40s):
Which is just to find out how people get. So, yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you. And thank you for doing this.

0 (32m 50s):
<inaudible>.