1 (31s):
Hello, and welcome to another episode of Interview schizophrenia. Today. I have Christian with me. Christian is from this world Christian lives in Las Vegas. He's 18 years old and it has a diagnosis of Schizoaffective disorder. Hello Christian how are you doing today?

2 (52s):
Hello I'm doing well today. Just a, another average morning here.

1 (1m 1s):
Okay. That's fantastic. So, so you're quite young, but it tells me about how your mental health journey began. What age did you first have symptoms and when did you get diagnosed?

2 (1m 15s):
Well, I guess my symptoms kind of I'm Schizoaffective but the type of Schizoaffective that I am is a I'm Bipolar type Schizoaffective. So my first symptoms began as a little kid, but they manifested themselves in a way, basically hypomanic symptoms. I would always have a lot of energy. I would do a lot of pacing I would pay. So to an extreme, I would pace around somewhere between four to six hours a day. Yes, the round, the Rondo living room over and over again, I was always really hyperactive a full up and met your nation.

2 (1m 55s):
Everything's so energetic, but I was just a young age. I was also, you know, depressed. A lot of it seems, I always felt that I was broken from a little bit, but for instance, I was a little kid. I always believed that there was something wrong with me, I guess, I guess thought I, I just thought I wasn't a fit for the world. And I had no idea that what I was experiencing was, you know, some chemical and advancements. I didn't even know what a chemical imbalance was back then.

1 (2m 29s):
Okay, fine. Fine. So why you should you got diagnosed?

2 (2m 35s):
Well, I got diagnosed at age six thing. It was in September and it was my second hospitalization and a psychiatric word for word. And it was September of 2017.

1 (2m 56s):
Say you were, how many times were you admitted to hospital?

2 (3m 1s):
I had been admitted to the psychiatric hospital for times. The first time was a first time was in, I believe in April of 2017. It's when I first had, had like started having a very huge psychiatric psychotic problems. I guess I had entered a very extreme irritable state of psychosis.

1 (3m 29s):
Wow. How did you find the hospital?

2 (3m 33s):
Well, well, the hospital itself, I was actually in voluntarily committed it. I just kept getting really, really paranoid. I felt really paranoid. I've felt really anxious. I couldn't rest and everything. I feel like if everything was just sinking into me and I felt like everything was, you were starting to kind of like, it's really hard to describe, but everything started to lose its purpose. It senses it's reality. It's a very, it was a very huge break in reality.

2 (4m 13s):
It's like, it was like, my son is, my subconsciousness was leaving my body and everything seemed to be sort of like in a third person, a point of view.

1 (4m 26s):
Okay. Fine. And well I'm what was the, what was it like inside the hospital? Was it nice? What did you feel safe there? What were the doctors Good with the nurses Good?

2 (4m 40s):
Well, the first four days I was in the hospital, I was completely out of bed. I had no idea what was going on and I didn't even know it was actually going on and I couldn't distinguish it from reality or not. It just felt like the, the first four days just passed by. But then as he started going on, I started doing a kind of coming back into my senses and a dust. I would describe the, the state was pretty good, but it got, it got really boring real quick. And what I hate about psychiatric hospitals is that they are the temperature inside that psychiatric hospitals.

2 (5m 26s):
That always seems like it's just a gut, just a wrong, it's not hold code is not hot, hot. It's right. It's the right temperature to yes or no, you it's terrible. They don't let you take your blanket on to your room. And there's a lot of people there as well. It's actually, it was actually quite fun experience at some points. You know, the other, there wasn't really a much conflict, but dosa, a lot of outbursts from the other patients wanted to throw a chair to another person. It was pretty wild. It's not like they show you in TV shows.

2 (6m 9s):
You would expect people's straight jackets, but no, it was just regular people will, you know, issues inside of their body. You know? And I learned a lot, cause all these people, if they're good people, their just broken inside of a brand and the brain just doesn't function correctly. And I'm trying to get buy, you know, I'm trying to deal with all the stressors. It was more like it's a group effort to try to help each other while we were in there. And the nurses were really nice. They were really sweet come forwarding and everything. I got a, you got to give them props for all the support and I don't want to curse, but for all the things that they are put through their, their, their, their heroes, getting a check thrown at you and then have how many too, like I have a blank face, you've got to put it simply put a poker face and not make them feel better or anything that they, they really deal with a lot of stressors, even more stressers and some of the patients.

1 (7m 18s):
Yeah, man, that's, you've got to have a great attitude. Do you know? It is a lovely attitudes you have, so it didn't, I put you on medication,

2 (7m 28s):
My medication or my current medication or the medication I started with.

1 (7m 34s):
Tell me about that. What did they put on you originally?

2 (7m 37s):
Well, originally I was given about probiotic acid brand name in the United States is called a Depakote. It's a seizure medication, but it also works as a mood stabilizer. So I guess it kind of stabilized my mood a little. And that led to me B being declared safe too, you know, exit to a psychiatric hospital at the, at that time we thought it was just a brief psychotic episode. Cause I had no idea. I had no idea of the other symptoms, so I never really brought them up.

1 (8m 13s):
Okay. And so now your diagnosis Schizoaffective was Bipolar type. What, what medication you are now? Okay.

2 (8m 23s):
Currently I take, I'm still taking valproic acid. I take, I take Seroquel to do Pyne and I take con I take congenital congenital illness for the tremors. I do get tremors, a lot of them actually. And I take Tressa don't to help me sleep. And I believe that's all I take currently, but I've taken in all sorts of the medication.

1 (8m 50s):
Okay. So you take a minute or a mood stabilizer, an anti-psychotic or a side effect for me for the side effects for like the, the tremors and a steep medication Yeah okay. Okay. And do you have to deal with side-effects? How is that? How have you been coping? I mean, you know, how, how, how does, how it affects for you?

2 (9m 16s):
Well, the side effects, it ranges a lot. The typical ones of course are the tremors eye twitches kind of just sometimes when I take them like a good half an hour to an hour from taking my medication into the night, I kind of get, kind of gets gone down for awhile. You could, I could sit in a chair and staring it to nothing for a good solid hour. It makes me so tired. And so groggy, I graduated high school last year, but the last couple of months I high school, I was just, I was just kind of like blinked into that. I just couldn't really stay awake for much.

2 (9m 58s):
So I was, I found myself abusing energy drinks, you know, three red bulls a day and it's like that. And it wasn't healthy, but I don't take, I try to limit my consumption of caffeine because caffeine could actually intervene with the chemicals inside of your body and make the medicine or not work as accurately as a medicine as opposed to.

1 (10m 22s):
Okay. So tell me you were a school for a lot of these. Tell me how did, how did your friends react for winter?

2 (10m 32s):
Well, a lot of them were kind of confused. Like didn't even, they didn't understand what it was and things like that, but a lot of them were supportive, but at the same time, not everybody was supportive. I did face kind of like a discrimination do to it and an academic program else. And they basically isolated me from everybody. Cause I don't know, they, they were misinformed about it and it really, it really sucked.

1 (11m 10s):
So you thought that was unfair for them to isolate you?

2 (11m 14s):
Yeah. It's a good program and I, I, well, I don't want to bash them or anything cause they help out kids and everything, but it was, I believe it wasn't a true that there are treatment afterwards and yeah, it is it's I think that people need to educate themselves better and realize that this thing is not, it's not common, but it's not uncommon and it's portrayed very bad in the media.

1 (11m 47s):
Yeah. And how did your family react to you?

2 (11m 51s):
Well, they were surprised too, but at the same time, just like I thought that there was something wrong. They always knew that there was something wrong with me to answer that in my brain, her body.

1 (12m 5s):
Yeah. I mean, you know, it's not, I dunno, it's difficult to say the call it the wrong. It's not wrong or right. So that, I think, you know, it's a, is a condition, but you have, but its not as clear as a beam is not a physical condition. It's a mental condition. It's a condition of the mind and the spirit. So it's not like, you know, I don't think its right or wrong or anything. It's just, it just the way it is, you know? Okay. So did you, do you know what you're doing at the moment? Are you studying or are you, are you tired? Are you resting, are hurting? What was happening? And now,

2 (12m 46s):
Well last year during the fall I started attending college. But since I live in the United States, you get, I kind of just when I entered my, in my classes, cause I was going to, I was going to study. I was going to study for automobile technologies. But when I entered, I realized that the tools weren't provided from me since I wasn't able to afford any of it, I was forced to drop back and I actually had a scholarship for the tuition. But the tuition is the tuition is expensive, but all of the expenses of colleges, aren't simply as a tuition, it's bigger than death.

1 (13m 34s):
Do you find, so what do you guys to do you now then?

2 (13m 37s):
Well right now with a Coke or coronavirus thing going on right now, the pandemic, there there's as many jobs here as well as big as currently that a lot of the places are shut down. Some of them are opening. Businesses went broke and a lot of people lost their jobs. So I guess when it starts getting better, I'm going to find a job and, and then to work really hard, I'm going to, I'm going to put myself through some sort of education programs. You know what, maybe a vocational school. Cause I, I want to succeed. I'm going to succeed. Okay.

1 (14m 15s):
Definitely. You know what I think is I'm, if you want to succeed with this illness, the best approach is to have a warrior. Attitude is, is not, you know, you could be a warrior or it can be a victim. If you're a Royal, a warrior, you know, you find for yourself, if you go after for when you want, you know, you don't, you know, you don't complain all the time. You go for it, go for it. The one, you know, but I think that's a finance, the most important thing for success. And you can't, you can't succeed a with this condition. There's not enough. There's no reason why not Yukon.

2 (14m 53s):
Yeah. Yeah. I agree with you. It was a lot of positivity. Sometimes I can't avoid being negative, but eventually I go back to being positive.

1 (15m 6s):
Yeah. You got to do that.

2 (15m 9s):
Yeah. Recently I've been more positive, but that's probably because I'm starting to come a hypomanic. How is actually awake for 25 hours. But I fell asleep yesterday and slept a good five hours and a half. But now I am full of energy again.

1 (15m 24s):
Why don't you tell me why is hypomania?

2 (15m 27s):
Oh, I see so many is more of a elevated state of mind. It feels good. You, you feel, you feel like you could do anything to set your mind too. You wa you, you have all these thoughts inside your head, all of these amazing ideas and everything, but you can't, then you have all these ideas and all these motivations, you have the energy to get up and start them. But you do not have the cognitive capability. You did not have the concentration to finish anything that you start. It's a, it's really strange. It's like, it's like, it was like writing is like writing down and a half of a script and they're not doing the rest of the script trying to film a movie and not filming the movie.

2 (16m 18s):
Cause you're just so full of energy and you can't concentrate. And, and you're thinking about this, but you're also thinking about it. You're just thinking of all the different things in your mind at the same time.

1 (16m 33s):
Okay, great. So in what, what sort of hobbies do you like? What do you play? Computer games or music? Do you like sports? What sorts of things would you like to do?

2 (16m 44s):
Okay. Well, I do listen to music quite a lot, but I like to also listen to stories, scary stories, or just lots of stories, like encounters, things like that. I'm really interested in a social sciences, more like a behavior sciences or the way people behave, the reactions. I like watching movies. And I like discussing the, one of my friends that are not that bad of discussing, discussing that because I don't really like to let you know over-think things, but you know, overthinking things is one of the things that I'm best that. And I also spend quite a lot of time read it, which is where I actually found, you know.

1 (17m 31s):
Okay. Okay. Christian I think, I think that we can, we can close it out because the microphone quantity, not like good, but I definitely like to speak to you again. Maybe if we can go back a connection, I would definitely want to speak to you again. Maybe we can speak and a few months time and you could ask after the PO, after coronavirus has finished and you can tell me more about what's going on and you could give her too.

1 (18m 14s):
Okay. Let's be like, what type of music do you like? Pop rock. Rock is pretty nice. Pop rock. Okay, cool. Cool. Cool. I'll play some music for you and yeah. Thank you very much for speaking, for taking the time to speak with me. Just generally the absolute pleasure. I think that you've got a good attitude. You've got a slight positive enjoy your time now or the client of ours as a paranormal. You know,

0 (18m 45s):
<inaudible> the specials, but I don't want them to be free.

0 (19m 40s):
And I'm next to you to go crazy for the sweet <inaudible> <inaudible> okay.