1 (31s):
Hello, and welcome to another episode of interview with a schizophrenia. I'm your host Duncan Samra singer. And today I have the great pleasure of having Byron with me. Byron is from Michigan. He is 36 years old. He has a diagnosis of schizoaffective, and that may be under review. So welcome to the show, Byron, how you doing today?

2 (55s):
I'm doing wonderful. Thanks for having me.

1 (57s):
It's my pleasure, man. So the first question I'm going to ask, it's always the same question just to give you, I want you to give a history of your mental health journey. You can start whatever age you want and sort of give a, give a summary, just take us to the present day. So if you'd like to do that, you can take breaks. You can talk for as long as you want, or for short as you want. I can, I can always ask more questions.

2 (1m 23s):
Absolutely. And I guess where it all started was when I was about 23 years old. That's when I first started getting help through the mental health, you know, like psychologists and psychiatrists and all the like, and I, I failed the course at the university of Michigan in Ann Arbor, four times in a row. And it's because I was having trucks ticks and I'd have to leave the class really from being such a disruption. It was like 400 plus I had Tourette's syndrome. Yeah. And I, I still have it to this day. It used to be once every 30 seconds, I go and bumped my head. But now it's about once a month. And unfortunately I beat myself up.

2 (2m 3s):
When I, when I have my truck's ticks it's, it's like a very violent and it's only to myself. It's self-inflicted, but there's a history behind that too. If you can remember to ask her, I'll talk about it later on. But yeah, I was interim. I, the reason why I was 23 years old, before I got help was because my family does not believe in mental health help. I'm going to say everything about my family today is a legend. I don't want to get sued, but if they do try to assume that I have witnesses that can get me for that can spot me for slander or libel, it'd be slander in this case. Cause it's focal. But yeah, my family, I grew up in a lot of abuse, a lot of neglect. My brother was a bully my whole life, my older brother by about three years, he'd keep a tally ode of how many beatings were expected.

2 (2m 48s):
Like the highest he'd ever got was 47. But he would say, he would say a beating that would be owed for later when he'd get away with it is what he was trying to do there. And if I didn't lay down perfect and take the strike and sometimes there's two or three strikes, you know? And then he just say like, you gotta do that over again. And then we do it over again. And it, it created a state of learned helplessness. And like for a while there, I would just sit there numb and take it. It was actually when he tickled me for about three or four hours straight, one time that I learned to tune out the pain and pleasure. And in this case it was pain obviously, but yeah. Where am I going with this? Let's

1 (3m 28s):
Just,

2 (3m 30s):
Oh, it was torture my whole life, man. Like I grew up my life. Wasn't free until I was 30 years old and it took that long and they always say it gets better. It doesn't always get better. It's like, you got to make it get better. And I met my wife when I was in my thirties and I was able to escape my family at that point. And yeah, it was rough. Like I had food, food, non-perishable food and water and my closet and cups to piss in, excuse me. But yeah. And I had to hold in my poop all day, some days, like it was rough eventually,

1 (4m 2s):
But

2 (4m 3s):
I know it is. If CPS knew it was going on, then I would have been taken away for sure. And I had a friend and a Catholic school that saw the bruises about a quarter of the time. I didn't want to show them all the time because it would just ruin the mood of the day. But sometimes I had to show him my bruises just to air them out. Like just to know, just let someone know that this shit's really going on with me. And I usually always got beaten in the hair, underneath my hair and, and beneath my clothes. Allegedly of course I'm saying all this and, and that's because it hide the bruises. And if there, there was a few times, it showed up on my face and the school kind of caught wind of it a little bit, but it was a Catholic school. So they they're pretty authoritarian there and kept it under, kept it under.

2 (4m 48s):
Everything was buried in swept underneath the rug. When I grew up and my parents knew they were in a Glock full, I believe my dad may have Tourette's syndrome as well. Cause he looks to clear his throat in a certain way. My mom, I believe is bipolar. And my brother, I think if this is even possible, he's a psychopath to the general public, but he's a sociopath with me because I can get underneath his skin. And

1 (5m 9s):
You know, it's like family. I was thinking about the other day. Family is just a name for folk who, who can abuse you and get way with it.

2 (5m 17s):
The family is family is who you make. You know, that's who your real family is. I haven't talked to my brother since a Royce defied nine concert in June, 2016. So it's been over six years now and I haven't seen my family, any other family members since January, 2019. And I have my reasons for that obviously. And it just, it kept getting worse and I thought it would get better. You know, there's a lot of Stockholm syndrome, a lot of different things that make you think that you can change other people. And they're not, if they're not willing to change, they're not welcomed in my life anymore. And I, and I tell them they need therapy and they think I'm the only one that needs therapy. And like, I'm just a black sheep or whatever, but I let it slide. Like, what am I going to do? You, I sometimes think that they have changed.

2 (6m 0s):
Like it's just, it's wavy, you know, like the, the five to seven stages of grief. And sometimes I want to believe that they've changed and saw like, they'll write an email to me and I'll write back, but it's always ugly. You know, my parents, they still $50,000 from me, allegedly from my UTMA account, it was partially a trust fund. And partially, also money. I put in myself with my own hard-earned money and it was just growing and, and everything. And, and I thought, I wasn't supposed to get it till I was 32 years old because my parents were so such like pessimists in the sense that they thought that I'd be divorced by the time I was 32, therefore gaining extra sums of money to help me financially, wherever I would be in life.

2 (6m 40s):
But I got married at 32 and I realized I wasn't getting the money. And they were laundering, you know, allegedly, like they were, they signed my name, like in all capital letters. I don't sign my name that way. You know, like if I look at the paperwork in that and it's ugly and like, I've, I've confronted my father about this. And he just says, oh, we paid this for you, this, this, this. And like, it's like, okay, I see how this is. You know, like, Oh, it's whatever you want to call it, man. It's yeah, but I've been rambling new year for, it looks like six minutes here. So

1 (7m 10s):
Yeah. So I mean, that's another criminal cases and they really, they, you know, I mean, I CA I guess you're worried about what they're going to do to you, but

2 (7m 21s):
Only for a little while, then when I have enough money saved up, I already do right now. But like, I can, I'm willing to take them to court and they'd lose their ass. I already know it. I have witnesses and stuff, but it's rough. You know, having to say allegedly all the time, it makes it seem goofy. But I have to say that.

1 (7m 37s):
No, that's fine. So, so this obviously precipitated some severe mental health condition. Is that correct?

2 (7m 44s):
Oh yeah. I have a few conditions. I've broke through some of them. I reckon. I don't know. I haven't been diagnosed in a while, but throughout the course of the years, I'll go in chronological order. At 23, I was diagnosed with Tourette's syndrome. Cause I kept having those ticks later on. I was, I was diagnosed with severe anxiety and severe depression from there. I had an episode in Chicago where I tried to live with my friend and that didn't turn out well because I moved to Pilsen at some point in Chicago, which is off the pink line. If you ride the loop there. And I just lost my mind, I was drinking 18 plus beers a day and smoking weed and losing my mind. And they threw me in the mental hospital from that one I've been in, I've been in the mental hospital in and out on 12 different occasions at 13 different hospitals.

2 (8m 31s):
And most of them were in like a year period when, when I was, when I moved to Chicago and even before then I was suicidal and things like that. But again, back to the mental health diagnosis sees, what are we going to call them? I've been labeled as you know, Tourette's severe depression, severe anxiety later on, it was schizophrenia because I admitted my hallucinations. Then eventually I was called bipolar. And from there I've had a Schizoaffective disorder, which is like a hybridization of the two of bipolar and schizophrenia, but I've talked to my psychologist. I don't have her anymore. I have a different one cause I had to move. But she suspects I'm schizotypal because apparently my parents knew I was autistic my whole life.

2 (9m 14s):
And I, and that hurts me so much because it would have changed my life if I had more time to take tests and things like that. And even just get help, you know, from, you know, special ed. It's not that you know, and, but likely autistic cause my son, we haven't gotten to my academically evaluated yet, but he's on the spectrum, you know? And my wife might be autistic too. It's just an autistic family here in rural. Cool. But it's like, you gotta re we gotta realize that we don't act like the social norms, you know?

1 (9m 46s):
Yeah. I think autism is becoming more in the spotlight now than it was say 20 years ago. Oh, you can fake

2 (9m 57s):
Even. They've even discovered that if you have ADHD, Tourette's that these are all signs that you have autism and there's, there's other signs too like that people, I think they say it's one in 54. People have have autism out. It wouldn't phase me a bit. If it was one in 10, I just think most people live their lives functionally enough, where they don't ever need to get diagnosed or anything. So from what I understand, you can look it up online, you can take surveys on it. And I took, I took like a nine question survey with my psychologist and I got eight of them and you only needed four or five to be considered as such. I haven't been diagnosed by a psychiatrist or neurologist yet, but to my understanding, it's basically schizophrenia hybridized with autism and the only real differences, thankfully I'm able to with, with schizotypal having autism, you're able to deduce that sometimes your hallucinations are fake or the, they aren't real.

2 (10m 56s):
And you can just squander that, squander that belief and not believe that, you know, delusion, hallucination, whatever it may be. And I have techniques that like my Tourette's, I virtually cured it. I know it sounds terrible, but beating myself up once a month, but it's better than it used to be. And I used to meditate 15 minutes, twice a day for three months and that got rid of it, like a lot of it. And you know, it started dying down to about once a week and now it's once a month. And yeah, I, I can't recommend enough meditation just working on your breathing, working on a clear in your head, you know, and, and not feeling guilty over having racing thoughts, like just allow them to exist and let them pass by.

2 (11m 38s):
And for schizotypal would help me fight my schizophrenia the most or whatever I'm labeled, you know, just don't call me late for dinner, you know, call me whatever you want. You know, but what helped me to do a lot of things is I call them anchor points. I don't know what they call them in the professional field, but I let's say, I don't know if I'm dreaming or if I'm awake or from hallucinating. It's usually when I've been up for a long time, I'm under a lot of stress perhaps in drug induce, which is not so much of a thing anymore. I haven't drank in three years, but I, I look at my surroundings and I go, okay, I'm looking at this carpet right now. If I were in a dream, I just say, okay, that's carpet and move on. But if this is reality, I can look deep into that carpet and see textures that my mind is not able to imagine on its own.

2 (12m 23s):
And that's what I call anchoring points. Like it can be any ho like any sense of your body, you know, just, and then I got stories. Like I used to think there, people are following me in the past, you know, I've had paranoia and pronoia symptoms where I had symptoms, where I was elated and it was dangerous. Like I thought, you know, I thought I was Jesus at one point. And like, I don't even, and I, and I used to be, I re I was raised Roman Catholic. I became atheist in my twenties because I'm a chemist. I studied a lot of like, what's the last science folk. And that rubbed off on me, which is good. Like, I think atheists are great people. And, and eventually the closest label I can label myself as is a pantheist, which is like the belief that everything it's like a light switch.

2 (13m 7s):
It's basically, if you're atheist, you believe nothing's God, nothing's nothing of that is sort of exists. But I flipped the switch in that sense. And I believe that everything is God. Like I see God in a, in a lump of soil and anything. Yeah. And when I was see like one of the last times, like the eighth or ninth time, I was putting the mental hospitals, cause they thought, I thought I was Jesus. And like, and I had no problem, but no one sat down and talked to me about it, the psychiatrist and made fun of me in fact, kept asking what my name is just to try to get a rise out of me.

1 (13m 38s):
You know, you know, I think most schizophrenia go through a phase where they think that Jesus, you know, I've seen it so many times and wearable that's a medical professional con can take it in that manner because it is actually a serious delusion of

2 (13m 55s):
Oh yeah. Yeah. If you can think, if you think you can perform miracles and things like that, that's dangerous. I didn't believe that I actually have like, oh, kind of a absurd belief in Jesus and like, and any, and it doesn't matter. It's what I was raised in. Like it could have been Mohammed could have been anybody, but like for me, I think personally, Jesus, Jesus was either an ordinary ordinary man or maybe an extraterrestrial. If he was that powerful. I don't know how he could have all those powers. But like, I think honestly, Jesus was an ordinary man. This is my belief. This is that this does not go with other people necessarily. But like, I feel that every one of his miracles was a game of telephone. You would play that game in kindergarten or when you were younger in school, like there's this gossip game where you play, where you say one word to a person's ear and then

1 (14m 40s):
Pull the Chinese whispers.

2 (14m 42s):
Okay. And yeah. So I believe that Jesus, every one of his miracles, if you look at them, they're a metaphor. So he could turn water into wine. That to me is a metaphor that he's like the most social person that could ever exist. Like he, he could turn water into wine. Like he can make people want to talk and get them going in a party. And like, you know, any of them walking on water to me, that means like, oh, he, he was unstoppable. And if you believed in him, he, he, you would be able to do whatever he was said. He could do. I don't actually believe he walked on water. And this is what I believe. Back then I had these beliefs where Jesus was just an ordinary man, but an extraordinary person. Like he tried his best to be at least hypocritical as possible.

2 (15m 24s):
You don't like to be a good human being. And you know, and even when he died and was raised three days after death, that could be a metaphor too. Maybe he was, he was just dead. But the Romans thought that he was not going to be able to have popularity. And if anything, it made it into a martyrdom, like a martyr. And in terms of all that, you know, like that's mass delusion. I think every person on this planet is, is a mentally ill in some facets know I'm serious. And I honestly think that there's mass delusion. I think a lot of religions are delusional and I'm not bashing people because you need to grip onto something to get through this life.

2 (16m 6s):
It's pretty rough. But Alice w I don't even what I was gonna say about it, but like, I don't know for me, it's like, I started believing in pantheism or whatever you want to call it. I don't believe in isms either. Like I have a saying, I say, take your isms. Any of them, any, any belief patriotism, any of it, take your isms, schism them with a prism, like put a prism up to it. And you can see the different lights shining off the different arrays of lights. And that's how we know what the stars are made out of. Like from far away, we take prisms to them and we can see that they're mostly hydrogen and helium at least on the outside. But that's, that's fascinating to me.

1 (16m 47s):
That's good, man. I, yeah, I think, you know, you come across as somebody who's, he's very lucid, quite clear thinking and they fought full. I think from what you've gone through, you've got, you've got your own unique perspective on life and, and how it relates to you. So yeah. That's good, man. You know? Yeah. Pammy feminism. I I'm kind of spiritual non-religious, but I have had a Christian background, but I'm in spiritual, which means I've got a firm belief in spirit, but I do like pantheism pantheism because that, that relate.

1 (17m 32s):
I relate to that because I do also believe that God, you can see spirit everywhere, everywhere as an example of spirit. It's just that I would say that, say like a forest or a waterfall that's pure. That's the most beautiful aspect of spirit, but you can see everywhere because we're all part of it. So I do like that.

2 (17m 55s):
I agree. And what really firmly the look, I mean, you can call me whatever you want. You know what I'm saying? Like, whatever you call me, communist, Steven, I don't care. Call me whenever you want. I don't care. But like, the reason why I identify partially with pantheism in particular is when I looked up this image and I, this is homework for anybody out there listening, like Google image search or whatever your favorite search engine is, and type in internet server known universe and mind just like a brain brain Dendright. And like, you'll see they're identical in shape. They're there. If you like, we don't even know what the known universe really looks like. It's only theoretical, but if you keep pulling back and pull them back and pull them back away from all the galaxies, then you see that the shape has roots roots.

2 (18m 40s):
It's all shaped like roots. And yeah, I got weird beliefs. You know, I, I,

1 (18m 46s):
I think the fact that you talk about space and you've obviously got an interest in, in astronomy and, and a and a universe, I also find that fascinating. And the great thing about it is that it takes us away from this planet and our existence. And there's something so much bigger than us, so much greater, so much more beautiful, you know, it's humbling. It's humbling. So I think that is, that is that, that is a great thing to be interested in. And I mean, and yeah, I, I will say that is something that, which I find fascinating as well.

2 (19m 29s):
I can tell you some that blow your mind and I'm a chemist. And like, I'll tell you, it's the same thing, chemistry. There's this movie called the fountain and it's directed by Darren Aronofsky. It's got Hugh Jackman in it. And Rachel Wise, I think is her name. She was a U of M grad, too. I forget what her name was. I'm sorry. But anyways, the movie is called the fountain and it was a graphic novel originally, and they were low on budget. And they're like, how are we going to film these like Nebula outer space visuals? And what they ended up doing was grabbing a microscope and doing chemical reactions with it because the chemicals that are in the microscope are the same ones in the universe and beautiful visuals. It's not necessarily the greatest movie ever. I like it a lot, but some people I can understand that liking it.

2 (20m 9s):
It's very strong. It's all about cancer and death and things like that, but a very emotional movie. So just a heads up there. If you're in a low place to may not watch it right now, but yeah, it's a good movie. And what I wanted to say is, you know, let's imagine the nucleus of a hydrogen atom being the size, just the proton and neutron being the size of a marble, just, just an ordinary toy marble. And we got something that's smaller than a grain of sand, the electrons orbiting around it. Okay. Now imagine this is spinning so fast, just physically in this orbital, it's extreme, it's spinning so fast that you can't see the nucleus, you know, and so my question to you is this, this electronics is a grain of sand.

2 (20m 52s):
That's going so fast around the nucleus, that you can't even see the nucleus, how far away you think they are in terms of that ratio. You know, it's this, you know, in, in reality, like, so I'm saying the nucleus is a marble and, and the electron small and agreeing to sand or the width of a hair, guess how far away they are.

1 (21m 14s):
I, when I was picturing it in my mind, I was thinking in terms of like millimeters

2 (21m 22s):
It's two miles. So it's like what you, time's up at 1.6 kilometers, you know? So it's, it's a huge distance. And the reason why I talk about this metaphor is like, that's what happens a lot. Even though out there with the mental health system, when I was a chemist, whenever we were able to deduce what was in, you know, a sample, we had to put a, we had a drown it with something that was known, you know, either helium, if it were a gas, cause that's an inert gas, it doesn't react to anything or like, like an alcohol or, or some sort of solvent. We know what that molecule looks like, but then it just completely isolates. The other molecule with the makeup of the intended molecule is so it'd be like a one to 100 ratio.

2 (22m 5s):
You put one of the unknown substance and then a hundred of the unknown or more. And like, there it is on a graph because you're able to see it out. And so what I'm trying to get at with these two metaphors is that the reason why we see stars at night is because they're so far apart, there's no difference between the electron orbiting the nucleus versus a planet, orbiting the sun. And, and that's all the stars, that's all the galaxies. And that goes on and on and on forever. But like, it takes eight minutes for the sun race to hit us. So the sun's already gone by eight minutes ago. Like we're where it was, you know? And, and like, if you think about it, you look up in the sky and the night sky, there's red shift, blue shift.

2 (22m 47s):
That's a whole conversation about how old the universe is.

1 (22m 50s):
You're actually actually seeing time on you. When you look at space, you're seeing players. Yeah.

2 (22m 55s):
You see the history of the big bang. And that's just one who knows how many multiverses there are, whatever we live in. You know, if there's parallel universes and everything, we know nothing right now. And that's another humbling, exciting thing to consider about in the field of science or any of it is that we are just like, Carl Sagan kind of said, he said, we're dipping our toes in the short and the ocean shore. And the water seems inviting. And it's like, man, I'll tell you. That's what I get excited about every day is just knowing that I can be alone. I gotta be comfortable with being alone sometimes, but there are people out there for everyone out there. And that's, I just want to say to the viewers, if your schizophrenia or you have some sort of mental illness, you're not alone, read up, read up Wikipedia on your diagnosis and like, whatever prescription you're given.

2 (23m 42s):
I made that mistake once I was given Depakote and anti-seizure medication, that was the only medicine I never looked up on Wikipedia and it almost killed me. And then I got, I was given another anti-seizure medication Trileptal, and that, that almost killed me too. I lost hair. I was like, I would stand up and faint sometimes and I had to stop taking it. But I'm on, I'm on a, I'm willing to share I'm on Abilify now, which is like an anti-psychotic and, and, and like a mood stabilizer for me. I'm not in any antidepressant cause I've gotten, I fight. I fight through a lot of my depression. I'd really, don't not that I'm depressed when I'm in a state of mania for a very long time. And then I'm crashing. That's when I'm at my worst, but I know how to get through it now. And I just look for anything that finds me gratitude.

2 (24m 22s):
That includes just being able to breathe, being able to talk, being able to walk on my own. Anything, you can find gratitude in anything, the smallest things. And that could help me snap out of my deepest funks.

1 (24m 34s):
You know, I feel you, man, I feel you and this good. And I T I, I want to ask you about your, your creativity, because, because that is what we did discuss online. I just want to, and you can eat, go through what, what you've been creating as, as part of your, as part as to raise awareness and your therapy and just for entertainment.

2 (24m 56s):
Oh yeah. Well, I started out, I remember when I was three years old, I drew these ninja turtles, you know, cause I was into them back then and I drew them. I said, I could do this for the rest of my life. And there's been multiple occasions where my dad said, I'll never be an artist and that'd be a cartoonist. And somehow I am both like, I, I do it anyway. And I've painted photorealistic paintings before I paint. I dropped strapped pieces. I, I draw them on Delos. I draw, I've drawn. I wanna say over 20,000 faces. And I mean, like not just the same face and I do that too, but as like memes, but like I also have drawn 20,000 different plus like contorted, weird faces. And I had to get, I was like, nowadays, what I use is this website called, I think it's, this person does not exist that come.

2 (25m 43s):
And it's artificial intelligence constructing a face for me, you know, like that is like, this person doesn't exist in real life. And they did just make a fake person. Yeah. That helps me to as reference because I don't want to get caught, drawn a celebrity and getting sued over, like, what's his name? I think it was Shepard Fairey. I think the guy that threw the hope poster for Obama, he got sued when he, when he drew that whole poster and like, yeah, from the photographer and Obama used it for his campaign. I'm not getting political or anything. I'm just saying with him, it was weird. But yeah. And so I draw on paint, I've drawn, I've drawn and paint my whole life. And then in 2007, well, 2010, I met logic on the street in Chicago, right after he was done being called psychologic.

2 (26m 27s):
And I have a whole Xen on that. And I'm willing to share that with you, if you want to put in your description or not.

1 (26m 33s):
Okay.

2 (26m 36s):
Yeah, go ahead.

1 (26m 37s):
Yeah. So that, you know, I, I think that's great that you're, that you're creative and that's of mind blowing your artistic level. I think it'd be fantastic. If you can share some of that art, if you have a link for that, you know, that will be

2 (26m 52s):
Probably the best place to go is woo-hoo poopoo and like I'm on YouTube and I'm, I got a.com, but it's pretty ancient. I got to change it up a little bit, but I got a good Instagram and YouTube going under and it's w O H L O P O O P O O double lows all around. It worked for Google.

1 (27m 8s):
We'll put the link in the description that's for sure. And also you mentioned, you wanted to, you wanted to read recent poetry that you've written.

2 (27m 16s):
Yeah. And I start, I started, I started writing poetry. I wrote a little bit of high school, nothing like just for assignments. And I did pretty well back then. I didn't think anything of it, but when I first met logic on the streets, Chicago, I was wearing a mask and he asked who my favorite rapper was. I said, MF doom. And he told me I could rap. And we talked for hours about it. And like, I didn't, I didn't really believe him at first. I didn't believe in him until he started spitting some lines. I was like, man, this guy has fire. And I didn't believe myself until seven years later, I started writing poetry in, in February, 2017. So it's been about five years now. And, and I can rap, I can freestyle, but I gotta be careful freestyle. And because if I freestyle, sometimes I get like obsessive compulsive disorder with it.

2 (27m 59s):
It landed me in the hospital one time because I couldn't stop rapping. Like I couldn't stop rapping and everything, but excuse me. So I'll read one here. This one is getting published in Detroit and Detroit's poetry magazine next issue for spring, summer or summer and fall. I can't remember, but it's the next issue of a Detroit river wise magazine shout outs to Vail. Thanks for hooking me up. And this one's called America. What is beautiful? And so the book I'm releasing, I didn't talk about that. I'll talk about that real quick. I'm releasing this book called right on the line and it's a play on the phrase, read between the lines and like, just like blood, you know, it's Britain and black, white, and red, and the colors are only that it's only black and white and red all over, which is an old joke here.

2 (28m 43s):
I don't even think Jen like zoomers would get the joke because newspapers have been gone. But the riddle used to be what's black and white and red all over. And like, you'd say a newspaper because you read it, but it's black and white and it's red all over. But like, I, I, I played with that phrase between read between the lines and I wanted to make something that's black and white and red all over. And so what I did is I have 101 poems for this book and it's going to be out by September. I'm giving the first copy to logic. I'm going to go see them September 1st. I got really good seats. I blew a lot of money on it and like, I'm gonna make sure he gets this book. If his last thing I do. But I mean, I'm going to contact security in that. I've done this stuff before, but like, this is, this is my first real finished piece like that I can actually mass produce and sell.

2 (29m 26s):
And it's, it's read a line and I'll just read this poem. That's getting published. And it's the image is a Benjamin Franklin hundred dollar bill in black, white, and red. And the name of the poem is America. What is beautiful? And so here we go, divide and conquer, dive I'd bonder. We do as America, not seeing how we conned here, we are farther than genocide and slavery turning blind dies. It's all me, me, me. The truth is young among the misinformed distract. And the truth is wrong along the Ms. Dunn foreign people with plastic for-profit prisons have slaves. There's Mexican children in camps, politicians deem brave while immediate actions are trips. The day will come shortly when the global economy collapses.

2 (30m 6s):
Thank God it lasts. I say, and that's, that's designed as massive masses get back or be passive mask it. And that's that one.

1 (30m 15s):
Yeah, it sounds kind of like the way you spoke. It was kind of like a wrap as well. Kind of like a, you know, got that sort of beat to it. But I know

2 (30m 25s):
I might make them into wraps in the future. I got a pen pal in London that I'm trying to make an album with at some point, but that's all in the future road. And like, I hope logic picks up on this, but you know what? I think this, for me, even if this book flops, I don't care. I did it for me.

1 (30m 37s):
You know, you know, I read online recent that I think there's been like 15 million books ever published in the history of the earth. So that that's a very small percentage of books compared to people. So it's an achievement just to get a book out there and, and, you know, and then I really do feel that. And, and, and, and, and you never know what's going to happen is kind of exciting. So you never know, you never know what's gonna happen.

2 (31m 7s):
I was talking to people yesterday, randomly and to two separate occasions and they wanted to buy my book and I just didn't have it out yet. So that's a good sign for me, you know, but yeah. And I got other poems too, but it's whatever bus for time, you know?

1 (31m 21s):
Yeah. Barbara, I think I've been going to wrap it up here, but what I want to ask you is what kind of music would you like me to put onto this episode? What type of music would you, would you like?

2 (31m 36s):
I like lo-fi hip hop, shout outs to Dilla and new GBS, the founders of that genre of music that is, there's a whole book called Dilla time that came out this year. And like the guy invented a new sort of beat making that's off, off the beat, you know, like

1 (31m 52s):
It's kind of like chill music. It's I find it on YouTube.

2 (31m 55s):
Yeah. And I can wrap over that. I'm going to, I can rap over boom-bap beats and all that, but like, I was whatever you want to put on, man. I,

1 (32m 2s):
Yeah, I'll, I'll, I'll be able to find something like that. That's fine. You know, there's a real pleasure talking to you, Byron, you know, you know, you're welcome to come back for another episode. I don't know when that will be, but you know, be patient and are great to hear, hear from more from you, because I think, you know, you really got a lot to say you've got an incredible journey and I think it's an inspiration to anybody that's listening or watching this. So, yeah. So it's been a real pleasure, man.

2 (32m 35s):
I'm honored. Thank you for all the compliments. It's something I used to have a hard time taking, but I just, it in, cause it's still shows a vulnerability on your end too. And I just gotta say, thank you. This podcast is wonderful. It's a great way for people to reach out and humanize our mental illness. Seriously. Thank you.