1 (31s):
Hello. Welcome to another episode of Interview. This is a friend and I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I have the great pleasure of Tony. He is from Oklahoma in America, he's in his forties and he has a schizoaffective, bipolar type diagnosis. So welcome to the show. Tony how you doing today?

2 (57s):
I'll tell you right up front. Duncan. When I, when you, when we talked to a week ago about scheduling this podcast to do this interview, I thought I was going to be a put together representation of what a person with a Schizoaffective disorder. It looks like I was going to represent the people. Well, I was going to put forth my best face. I have had one of the worst nights, maybe the worst night in my Schizoaffective life just tonight. And I've been up all night and now it's, it's it's noon here in Oklahoma and I, you just happened to catch me on the, the day of my worst day through,

1 (1m 43s):
And this will

2 (1m 45s):
Be an interesting interview.

1 (1m 47s):
Okay, fine, man. What happened? What happened? What did you get triggered or something?

2 (1m 52s):
You know, I've had some triggers building over the last and right now the supposedly people who are, are targeting me are blasting. My head with microwave energy is, is supposedly what's happening now about right now, about 80% of my belief system says that's true. And about 20% believes that its not. And then I am having an illness. That imports is the delusion.

1 (2m 24s):
You know, I've also got a very stable delusion, which I quietly accept about myself with a normal people would think or what is he all about? But I can see where you're coming from that, you know, I have a delusion, which I, which I accept myself and I live by, I think, yeah, that's what I think it is. And that's it, it works for me. And I'm happy with that.

2 (2m 50s):
Oh, I wish my work a little, a little better than it. It works. It, it causes us to be in a lot of problems. And but yeah, I, I believe that I'm being targeted by the deep state here in America and that they are using microwave a new technology that's unknown. That is where they can emit, shoot microwaves into your body and pinpoint your brain or any part of your body they want. And they, so they're doing that to me and all the, all night, last night I had pain all over different parts of my body. At varying times, I was in a just agony all night.

2 (3m 33s):
And then I experienced voices 24, seven all day, every day. And I have for the last five years. So they were very busy last night telling me all kinds of different lies and maybe some truths who knows. So I was up all night, last night, dealing with that. And here I am now. Yeah.

1 (3m 56s):
How are you feeling now? I mean, you're putting you can me, you know, you sound like a cave kind of thing, but is it just kind of like, you know, a lot of this is just a daily occurrence for me, so I've got no choice. Just get for it somehow.

2 (4m 11s):
Well, not really. I mean, this is what I'm going through right now. It's not a daily occurrence. Duncan, it's a w what's happening is I'll just be completely honest with you, man. I'm, I'm going to be very bare, a very, very, you know, to the core here. M I R earlier tonight, for me, it's still a nighttime. So because I've been up all night earlier today, I cried and laughed at the same time for about at least 20 minutes straight. And I was crying and laughing at the same time because I was in such a whirlwind of not knowing what's real, what's fake. What is hallucination or delusion and what is the illness and not, I just, I don't know, what's real anymore right now.

2 (4m 58s):
Now I have gone through plenty of times where I felt like I was, I was the other way. I was 20% delusions, 80% belief in my illness. So it varies every day is an adventure. And so what I'm basically doing is laughing through the pain right now.

1 (5m 15s):
So do you want to talk about your delusion? I mean, it's up to you. We can, we can go into a little bit more deeper. Do you want the data?

2 (5m 24s):
Yeah, I can definitely do that

1 (5m 25s):
Because I mean, why I'm wondering, like, so do you believe, because I've heard people talk about voice, the skull technology and this kind of a, was it MK Thiel or the ultra? Yeah, I'm of ultra. That was like a CIA project or something where they were developing this techniques, this technology. But I mean, personally, I don't buy it. I don't buy it. I mean, my, my is kind of a little more, lots of the rings or a thing rather than a star Wars. Mine is loaded rings. I guess

3 (6m 8s):
I liked that. I liked that I'd much rather live in Lord of the rings than it is star Wars.

1 (6m 14s):
Yeah. So, so what, what I mean, so what do you expect and what were you experiencing last time? If you give us, like, give us some insight for people who don't really know what, what happens in a, in a, in a severe psychotic break.

2 (6m 30s):
Yeah, that's a great, that's a great call. So basically, you know, throughout the night things built and it was a progression of, I would feel a buzzing or a, like a, like an electric electrical, current running through a particular part of my body, let's say my foot and it would start out small and then build up and build up on in one foot until it would cramp up my foot and my toes would curl. And so it would be, you know, if you've ever had a foot cramp that, that curls your toes, you know, how bad those can be. And that's what, so that's how it would basically happen. I have a scoliosis in my back too.

2 (7m 12s):
And so they love to target my back where my scoliosis is in my lower back. So I had a lot of lower back pressure and intense pain all night. And as I said, it built now I've been getting worse for a couple of weeks because the voices have told me that my well, and this is as some people call this like gang stalking, you've heard that I'm sure. So the, the voices have told me that some of the people that I am friends with are now they've turned, the voices have talked to them and turned these people against me.

2 (7m 52s):
And so I, so that's one delusion that I struggle with of constantly being, you know, trying to check everyone and see who's telling the truth and who's not, you know, like I said, a very back and forth a little bit, you know, one way than the other and every day is different. So last night I, what I would do is I would play music or listen to a podcast or watch a YouTube video and to drown out their sound of the voices. And then I would stopped for a minute. And I always have this thing where I think that they're going to give them some valuable information, excuse me.

2 (8m 35s):
And so I, so I started, I would listen to them occasionally I would turn off the music, get everything quiet and just listen to the voices. And they would tell me things like this is a worldwide network where everyone is connected voice to skull, and we all listen to each other. If you just think about someone you can, and you listen to them, you can connect with them a brain to brain basically, and you can affect their physical realm as they are affecting mine in the form of, you know, static electricity in my body and, and a muscle spasms and pain.

2 (9m 16s):
So I went through a thing Duncan this is going to, this is going to either make you laugh or cry or hang up. I don't know. But I went through a thing where I, I decided that I, that my family would want me to fight this. If there was a way to fight these people. So what I did is I put together a plan of how to fight. I spent a couple of hours putting together a very detailed plan of how to fight back against the deep state of America and a very small, easy, easily attained task.

2 (9m 57s):
And so I'm telling you, Oh my goodness. And so I put together this plan, and then I, I, I, you know, I, I just, I was confused and I was, I was, I was a little manic. So I, I suffered from bipolar a Schizoaffective disorder, which means that I have the ups and downs. Now I've recently started taking zap, Cymbalta, I'm sorry, Cymbalta. And it has gotten rid of my depression for the first time in my life. And I'm 46 years old, almost 47. So that is a blessing, but it's also a little bit of a curse because now I am up a lot.

2 (10m 38s):
I'm a elevated a lot, right? No longer have the lows that come with the depression, but I still sometimes experience the highs. They come with the mania or hypomania, whatever, whatever you call it. And

1 (10m 53s):
I, I would fake, you know, I would think that the paps you're going to save this is that the mania can affect your judgment of the delusions as well, completely cause it can, yeah. You know what we can make you, you know, like, like, like creating a plan against the deep science of a, of a America is it would be calling some kind of hypomania. I would think, you know,

2 (11m 19s):
That's right. That's right. Yeah. I mean, you know, normal people, I mean, th you know, to use that word, a normal people to the people who don't have this illness do not go around doing that for fun. And, you know, at three o'clock in the morning, honestly, on a Saturday night. And so I, you know, so I did that. I created the plan. I then realized after I, then I, I ended up talking to my sister at one point because I needed to reach out to someone. And I talked to her and she is my older sister. She's a huge help, this one of the best people on the earth. And she's always there for me.

2 (12m 0s):
And so is my friend Russell. And I talked to him and I talked to my sister and they both said, look, do whatever you need to do. And so I started recording the ambient noise of my living room so that I could record these voices and I would have something on tape. And I just made it a part of my plan was I was going to take this recording to an audio engineer to break it down and find that the voices that are within this audio.

1 (12m 29s):
Okay, fine. I think, I think one of the most frustrating aspects of S of a skitzo spectrum disorder, when you have auditory hallucinations, is that nobody else can hear it. And, you know, it's, it's kind of an isolating experience that we go through that we can hear these hallucinations, but we can't share it with anybody else.

2 (12m 59s):
It's so isolating. You're, it's the perfect word for it. Yeah. And you know, one, one thing too, that's really hard about that is people don't, I think can't fathom how hard it is for you to second, the guests, what your senses are telling you is true. Yeah. Right? Your five-year five, your five senses say, this is what you're seeing or hearing or whatever. And then you have to tell yourself these sensors that have been supplying this data from 46 years, I now have to not trust those senses. And it's really hard to do,

1 (13m 37s):
You know, it's like, as if you have to be fragment your mind, you have the compartment compartment you have to do, you have the separate parts of it, because some parts are like, I just going crazy and you can't trust them anymore. So you've got a light, Oh, I'll sit in there, stay in the side of my mind that still works. You know, that it's weird, but I know exactly what you mean. It's I never thought about that, but it is because everything, everything we perceive is go is in our minds. And that's what small functioning. Yeah.

2 (14m 11s):
Yeah. And so for decades, your, every, you know, as long as you've been alive, your brain has been putting these signals into your, into your, or your, you know, your sense. Has it been putting these signals into your brain and saying, this is what is your reality and all of us and all of a sudden, it's like, no, that, well, you know, and so it, it it's basically, if I was looking at the television while I'm sitting in the living room with everyone else, you know, sitting around and we're all watching a movie and I don't see a television, I see a pink elephant. And I say, guys, what is this pink elephant doing? And everyone else says, that's a television. And I go, Oh boy, you know, this is, so you have to you're exactly. I like what you said about compartmentalizing.

2 (14m 53s):
You have to separate these parts of your brain and you, and your age, you learn to identify what are the same normal thoughts and what are my illness, thoughts, and you know, where, where do these go? Where do I put them? And then you draw from which well, you feel like growing from it that time. And unfortunately I've heard from a lot of Schizoaffective skits, or, you know, skitzo spectrum people who enjoy the, the hallucinations and delusions. They like that. It gets exciting to them. And I understand that concept. I don't feel like I subscribed to that as much.

2 (15m 33s):
I'm not really, I, if I could get rid of these suckers, I would be very happy to, but I will say this, you know, what I'm doing right now is a lot of that compartmentalization that you're talking about because I'm able to function and sound. I'm sure I sound like a normal guy. And, and, you know, on one, one part of my brain is going absolutely psycho right now, going the voice because the voices are talking to me right now and they're hitting my head with these rays. So it was just, you know, it's a, it's a wild, wild ride. It really is. And, you know, I said it also earlier every day, it is a little exciting that every day is something new. I never know when my life,

1 (16m 15s):
Yeah, exactly. In a way we do go big. We were privileged that we go for an experience. The 99 people out of a hundred will not know anything about it. So we'll, we will always have that, that, that different, that different life experience of the people. You know? So, I mean, while I was going to say it to you, I'm test about what you're telling me about the microwave signals and you're a fan and people, people telling me against you, you know, I, if I was a psychiatrist, I would say, you know, we'll, Tony, that's the persecutor a delusion. What do you, how do you feel about it? I've told you about that?

1 (16m 55s):
Have you, have you considered that?

2 (16m 58s):
Certainly. And I've, Duncan, I've done a lot of my own research. I mean, mostly because, excuse me, mostly because I am in a low income bracket. Yeah. I get a lot of free healthcare and, or some, you know, subsidized in some way, a lower price, income based healthcare. And so my mental care comes at a reduced costs and therefor a, usually a reduced product that you receive. And so, so what I run into is I had to kind of do my own research in school myself, and I've become, you know, over the last five years, I've become pretty knowledgeable about what all that is, that the delusions, that the different types of delusions and, and all of that.

2 (17m 48s):
So, yeah, and I feel, I hear maybe a little concern in your voice maybe, and I like that. Thank you for that. But I do, I do a know these are, and I know how to identify them. And I tell you what's so crazy or funny, whenever something like that happens, I immediately know what it is. Right. So it's, it's, it's it's as if my mind is split into and part of my mind goes, that's true. And the other part goes, well, you know, this type of delusion. Right. And I go, yeah, I know, but it's still true. So

1 (18m 22s):
I guess I I've got my own delusion. Okay. So my delusion is that people, some people have psychic powers and they can speak to me via telepathy and they are more targeted individual. So that's kind of my delusion. I don't, I don't dwell on it too much. I kind of let it go out there. I think from hearing voices, I think, okay, it's a psychic phenomenon and I live with it, but you know, and that to you, that's probably like, what the hell is it? You don't think about microwaves? So, I mean,

2 (18m 55s):
Well, I, I I've, I'm sorry, go ahead.

1 (18m 59s):
I was going to show you a couple have, because I was just thinking about is what we're talking about. And I'm like in America, like the movie industry, like they produce some, like the movies they produced today are pretty far out. They're like superhero movies, you know, it's not depicting real life with people like the general public except this, you know? So I think a lot of people have kind of like a mental issues. You know, they, they think they they've got their own fantasies that call them delusions. We can call it the more people having to find the seas, you know, they believe they're superheroes or that, you know, cause I saw on TV about one of the American guy driving a Batmobile and you know, do you know, do you know what I'm gay, man?

1 (19m 46s):
It's like, there's a lot of does a lot of fantastical force that goes in and the normal person's life that's out there, you know, for sure,

2 (19m 57s):
No kidding. Is that because of Hollywood, is that Hollywood thing or is that cause I thought that was the president in most countries. Is it not?

1 (20m 5s):
I think, I think America is still ahead in terms of progressive society than the rest of the world, you know, like in Britain we're more reserved. And if it, if you, if you were Belial you kind of get mocked a little bit or ostracized working in America, if you're a billionaire, that's going to be a subculture, there'll be a, there'll be a sub culture for that. So if you're a star Trek fan, there's thousands of people who also started fans and you guys feel that you can go to a conference, but in Britain, like if you, if you're a soccer fan, well, okay, fine.

1 (20m 46s):
It's not a big deal, then they're not to celebrate it. You know, it's kind of what kind of more, I guess the Mo maybe narrow-minded I suppose a bit, where is the kind of more like a set life path for people in this country was I think in America, to me, I just see like, if you can have, there's a lot of subcultures, which makes it kind of interesting. And so that, that is kind of where I was coming from. Cause I'm just thinking that, you know, like, is it when I say art mimics life or something, you know, like a production of the popular media is, is, is a reflection of the, of the average person psyche, if you know, I mean, we see like in like in the 1980s, the films are in the seventies, the films are much more realistic.

1 (21m 45s):
Like We like in an action film, the ad, the guy did not jump off on an airplane to another airplane, kind of a more normal, whereas the day that they come flying and shit they can do with it.

2 (22m 1s):
Yeah, yeah. Everything, everything is a superhero. Now, everybody, it was like, even like diehard, you know, it started out as, you know, just John McClain, you know, up there doing his thing. Now he's a superhero, you know? So all, all characters in America eventually turned into a superhero characters are basically yeah. And, and, and I th I think that you're exactly right. One thing that, that stuck out to me and what you were saying is that, you know, rebels, because maybe because of our founder, our founding, the, the, how we were founded rebels are celebrated in America. I'm sure that everybody knows that, but they are not just acceptable.

2 (22m 42s):
Rebels are idolized in America. And if you are not a rebel than you are, what is now just becoming like hip is a nerd, which is a nerd, is someone, of course in America, is, is someone who loves star Trek or, you know, they have, they have this one thing that's not cool to like that thing. You need to be smoking cigarettes and getting drunk or whatever. Right. So that's the, that's the cool guy, you know?

1 (23m 12s):
Yeah. Okay. Yeah. It was like, to me, it's like old, the modern films of America, like how, like a social culture, it's all about having the drug dealer on speed dial is this is much more accepted and like getting banged up in prison. Yeah, man. That's cool. You know, it's kind of like that. I like that as well. And I just think it's a reflection. It's just the way society is progressing, I guess. Yeah. It's a great what you're talking about. Rebel culture. Yeah. It makes sense. It does it. Now. I will say this. I,

2 (23m 46s):
You know, some, I think that some people, it does affect their, you know, how they end up living their life, because like you said, life imitates art. And so there's definitely an element of that in America. I believe now, you know, when you have a situation like mine, I don't believe that mine, what happened to me was basically this to boil it all down. Excuse me. I, I started hearing voices first and what I had, what my brain did was said, well, I have to figure, I have to decide what that is that I'm hearing.

2 (24m 28s):
Right. What is that? And so my brain said, okay, well, is it someone and the other room? Is it someone, you know, w w now I'm hearing way too many voices for it to be someone and the other room. And I'm hearing the way to clearly, how am I hearing all these voices? Who are these people? Why are they in my head? So I went through, you know, hundreds of scenarios of what this could be. So for me, a, a sort of a idealization of what my life could be like, I wasn't really there because I'll tell you a Duncan here's the deal is this is going to blow your mind when I was in my early twenties to a lesser.

2 (25m 11s):
So from about 20 to age, 30, about 10 years, I was a traveling rock and roll musician in America. Yeah. So you want to talk about the rebel culture? I was it, you know, I, I lived that life of a rock and roll, you know, every night and a different bar across the country. You just play in it and playing gigs. And, and so, you know, so, well, it was, it was a great, it was a great fun 10 years, for sure. It was my career during that time, you know, and I still play music, you know, still love music, but it's not my real thing anymore, but yeah.

2 (25m 53s):
So I already had a life like that. And then I was ready to get out of that. And I didn't feel like I needed anymore superhero life. When I got out of the band scene, I was ready for a normal life. So when this hit me, it was more of a, Oh, dang, what is this? Now? You know, it was, it, it, it definitely wasn't any kind of an idealization that somehow brought me into delusional thinking. It was all, all of a sudden, I'm hearing these voices, what do I do now?

1 (26m 26s):
You know, but, you know, when I said, persecutory, you know, that's where I would say it is because you believe you're targeted individual. Yes. And yeah, man. So maybe you got to work on that. You know, you kind of like a, I don't know, dunno, man. It's just because, cause I know it can be quite a scary place to be because I believe that I've been a target the individual as well, you know, and, and it's quite, it can be frightening and stressful, you know?

2 (26m 56s):
So the stress period,

1 (26m 59s):
It is something which is kind of easy and homeless, you know?

2 (27m 8s):
Well, I love that. Well, real quick then let me interrupt and ask you if I may. And of course, you know, I don't know what you do on the show. I, but, but can you tell me what your, who who's targeting you or would you rather not say,

1 (27m 24s):
Okay, so at the moment I believe that it's psychic and I believe that a couple of my friends have, I have a telepathic power. That's what I currently believe. And I, you know, I don't, I don't think about it too much, but that's my common belief. We are in the past. I have thoughts about a religious cults. I have fought about a technology in my head. I have thought about the FBI aliens.

2 (27m 56s):
Oh yeah,

1 (27m 58s):
Yeah. All of that stuff. I've gone through all of that and I've let all of it go apart from the psychic activity. And, and I kind of a thing, the voice is can't hurt me and, and I can, and I can, and I can gain information, which may be useful. So I just, I don't try to do anything special. I just leave my life normally, but I kind of think that's what I experience. Yeah.

2 (28m 34s):
I love it. I wish that I could get to a place, like you said of, you know, of believing in that the, if, if you're going to have delusions, it would obviously be great if they weren't that big of a deal. Right. Like if they were, Oh no, there's one guy thinking about me in Toledo, Ohio, you know, it would be much better than the first and that's stressful. Yes. Well, you know, and so how well, how long, first of all, does medicine work for you to clear up any of your delusions or hallucinations?

1 (29m 11s):
So I, I take the lands of pain, which was I prexa, I take 12.5 milligrams. Am I still have voices daily? I've been hearing voices daily since 2010. Oh, wow. Okay. So it's been a long time and I, I just put music on or I just sit there and a buyer I'm determined to go on with myself. I want for my life, you know, I'm not, I don't want to, I'm, I'm determined, you know, I've got a, I've got a strong term at the terminal, a streak in me and you know, and like the person who's, who's psychically harassing me, I have attempted to confront them and I have, and I have posts on Facebook, please, please stop.

1 (30m 5s):
You know, so yeah. I mean, I have done things like that where that's difficult because it's kind of unprecedented, but yeah. So that, that's kind of why I believe, you know.

2 (30m 18s):
Right. Okay. Well, I was just wondering if you, like, for me medicine and you know, like I said, the Cymbalta has basically, I hate to use the word, but really it's been eight months now and I have not had a depressive episode in eight months, so that's the longest I've ever gone. So that's great. But the, the, you know, I just started with Invega now. Duncan, I've taken over 20 different anti-psychotic medications in the last five years. So I, its and none of them have touched the voices at all. So go ahead. Yeah.

1 (30m 55s):
I mean, for one, one thing I would say, I mean my doctor wouldn't change my medication. I can't change olanzapine, you know, she's like, no, we can change the third stage, but we're not changing the drug cause I'm like, okay fine. So the only thing that I would say is that maybe you need to give it some time as well on keeping changing that amount of drugs in that short period of time. Yeah. He probably haven't been on them for a long enough. I don't know. I dunno. I can't make that judgment. I'm just saying it as a possibility that might be it, but it might not be, but that's all I would say.

2 (31m 33s):
I appreciate that. And that input. Yeah. I mean, it's definitely something to look at it because you know, in five years being on, you know, that many, I mean that's a different drug every three months.

1 (31m 42s):
You're leaving us to say, well, if the drugs don't work out, what the hell is it? Right.

2 (31m 50s):
No, not at all. What I was wondering is are the drugs work for you? Well, it's a lot easier, you know? And, and I was going to say, well, they don't work for me. It's a lot easier. I think to curtail your delusions when the drugs are helping. Right. And it's a lot easier to not listen to those voices when the anti-psychotic medication you're on has deadened them a little bit. It made them quieter. It's way easier to, to avoid them. And, and, but, so I, I will say this though, here's the thing I, you know, I went from probably a year out of the law. Well, a good six months out of the whole last year, five years where I never ever listened to the voices and they still irritated me because I knew they were there.

2 (32m 35s):
And in moments where I got caught without my earbuds in and a podcast playing or without music available where I could not drown them out. And I was just sitting in silence somewhere. That was a, that was the scariest moment for me. But you know, I went about six months straight where I never dealt with them at all. And I w I felt like I was on my way to recovery, you know, or as much as it as, as one can. And then I guess in the last year I would call it a relapse that I have gone backwards. And, you know, I, and it's weird that I've gone backwards while my depression was fixed for the first time in my life, after 46 years.

1 (33m 19s):
I mean, my antidepressants, they also worked for me as well, but the antipsychotics, they can't, it works for a certain extent, but it doesn't, it doesn't do everything. Right.

2 (33m 29s):
Yeah. Right, right. Right. Well, I like, I like your idea though. I like the concept of, you know, let's, you know, you can't ever prove delusions. That's kind of the definition, right. Is that they are, you are a diluted, you do not, you're not thinking correctly. And so, you know, I make up evidence and I, and I connect things that aren't connected and, and then everyone else says, Hey, tone, you know, you're, you're connecting these two things in that really not connected or that thing doesn't really mean what you think, what you're saying. It means, you know, it's just an occurrence, not a fact or a, a smoking gun.

2 (34m 12s):
And so, you know, I, I do, I think that a Duncan as I get better, I think that I will, as time goes on, I think that I will one someday find the right medication. It took me eight years to find the right, the depression medication. So, you know, I've been in the last five years who knows, maybe on your 10 where you're at, I will find something. But the other thing is, you know, I am hopeful. I believe that I have the tools to fix this. And I've just been in a bad place recently. And I think I'll turn it around.

2 (34m 52s):
You know, I really do.

1 (34m 54s):
Okay, man. I think we've gone slightly over time today so we can wrap it up. I just want to say a few more things. Tony does have his own podcasts. What is your podcast is take the Cool. Is that true?

2 (35m 9s):
It's a comedy podcast where me and my two siblings. And I know that it's a little strange after with the discussion, we just had this, I go listen to this comedy, but Hey, maybe you need a good laugh after this, but it's a comedy podcast. And we just started this year and it's called Kick the Cool and it's me and my two siblings where we it's a review show where we give you the reviews. You didn't know you need it. So we get, we, we review that. You didn't even know you'd want it to be reviewed. Right?

1 (35m 41s):
Yeah, man, I'm going to, I'm going to treat him to that. And I, and what I'll do is I'll put this, I put a link in the description of this Episode that'd be great. Yeah. It's been a real pleasure. Tony is slightly different today because you know, it was a, there was a real natural flow, I think, with this, with these you're a great talker or a thing, you know?

2 (36m 2s):
Hey, thank you. Duncan I felt like we could've gone on for three hours.

1 (36m 7s):
Hold on for a long guy. No, but, but my, my, my podcast house people wouldn't have, let me put any more episodes up.

2 (36m 14s):
Oh, I see. Great talking to you.

1 (36m 19s):
Yeah. And one last thing. What type of music do you like? So I can add that on to the end with the show.

2 (36m 25s):
Oh, that was a hard choice right now. I am really into the band Haim, H a I M M O it's. It's kind of a, what's a three girl band and it's a little bit, you know, a little bit electronic, but it's very mellow and fun, so,

0 (36m 54s):
Oh, that'd be great. Okay, man. So it was a really fantastic, great picture. I wish you all the success with your protocol, maybe one day,

2 (37m 13s):
Right? Duncan thanks for having me on. And I tell you, I, I'm glad that you're able to get it better than I am right now. And you know, I hope that, yeah, that's right. I'm going to, I'm going to do that today after I go to sleep

0 (37m 34s):
<inaudible> I won't keep it.

0 (38m 48s):
<inaudible>.