2 (31s):
Welcome to another episode. I'm your host today? I have the great pleasure of having Zach. Zach is 26 from London. He has a Schizoaffective diagnosis and he also has some other conditions as well. So welcome to the show. How are you doing today? How, how have you been coping with the COVID? It's almost ending now. Isn't it

3 (1m 3s):
To be truthful to you? Duncan? I don't leave my house very often anyway, so it w it didn't really affect me. I'm not somebody that goes out clubbing. I'm not somebody that goes out during care, and it didn't really affect me to tell you the truth. I haven't walked for four years, so I didn't really, it didn't really impact me greatly to tell you that was about it.

2 (1m 24s):
I think, I mean, I kind of consider it that it's kind of finished now. I don't wear mask anymore and I kind of consider it it's over, but I know it's not, I know the official line is that it's not, but

3 (1m 39s):
I'm in the same boat as you, to be honest with you. I mean, I was wearing a mask for a long time, but at my mental health place that I go to and they said to me, they said to me, you don't have to wear one any more. If you don't want wear one, we have to carry on because we're a, we're a mental health place and it's obviously a medical place. So we have to wear a mask, but it's completely up to you if you want to wear one or not. So I haven't been wearing one either. To be honest with you recently,

2 (2m 3s):
It's more comfortable. Okay, Zach, let's start. So the first question I ask is always the same and I don't think any needs to be changed. I want you to tell me about how your mental health journey began. What, how old were you, what were your first symptoms? How you got into the system, how you dealt with hospitals and doctors, you know, how it impacted your life. You'd just like to talk about that and, you know, whenever you need to take a break, take a break and I might ask some questions. It's just up to you to go into as much detail as you want. Brilliant.

3 (2m 37s):
Okay. Right. So when I was around this a long time ago, now it was a time 26, but I think I was around the ages of four to eight. I would, I was very, very paranoid anxious, actually. I would say at the time, not paranoid, it grew into paranoid. I was very paranoid. I'm very anxious. Sorry. I, I couldn't sleep at night. I was constantly saying to my mum and dad, there's, there's there's people coming to get me. And my mum and dad was saying, there's no one coming to get you signed. You're fine. Where you're safe. You're in your home. I just, I couldn't sleep. I mean, I slept in my mom and dad's bed near enough, every single night up until I was about eight or nine.

3 (3m 18s):
And then not to sort of add them, float the anxiety disorder, add them float until I got a bit older. I went to school. I had a few experiences growing up around the ages of 12 to 13. I was marked a few times and it really heavily impacted my life. I didn't really realize it at the time. I sort of got on with it and carried on my life. But the Muggins that happened to me, they happen in such a sporadic way that I just wasn't expecting it. And it just fed into my anxiety and anxiety and paranoia. And I would be coming home from school were like 14, 15 years old on the bus and I'd have my hoodie up all over my face.

3 (3m 58s):
And I wouldn't want to see anyone in case. I bumped into people that mocked me. I was so frightened that I would jump off the bus and literally run home. I would, I would run. I'd have my hoodie on. So no one could see me and I'd sprint home. And that gradually over the years, sort of ebb and flow. As I say, in the paranoia came and went. And I think I was, I started a relationship with my fiance now, which now my fiance, I started a relationship with her when I was 16. And things went really well until I was 17. And I had my first psychotic break. All I can remember is being at my grandma and granddad's house.

3 (4m 38s):
And they absolutely love Christmas. And it was around Christmas time and they had their whole house was full of Christmas stuff. And now that Santa Claus is everywhere. They had snowman. They had all kinds of different things. And I just remember, they started talking to me. I can't remember now exactly what they were saying. Cause it was like eight years ago now, nine years ago now. But they, they just started talking to me. They were just saying whatever to me. And I would sit down. I would sit down apparently and just have conversations with these dolls. And gradually things got worse. My mum kept him want to accept that I will not, they want to have sex. She didn't really understand that. She didn't know how best to treat me. So she, she took me to, I was already seeing a mental health specialist for my anxiety. And she took me to them and said, look, something's not right with my son, but this has gone on, this is going on.

3 (5m 21s):
And they said, okay, please come to a psychiatric ward, an under 18 psychiatric ward. I said, okay. So they brought me down there and they assessed me. And they said to my, my grandma and my mom, I'm sorry, my mum and my granddad that I needed to be admitted into hospital. And my mum and my granddad was so frightened because of all the stuff they'd seen on the news. And they'd seen on the TV, they, they didn't want me to go in his hospital at 17 years old. So they said to the staff, they were like, look, we'll we'll, we'll take care of all of them over Christmas. He's going to stay with us. We're not going to let him go out, et cetera, et cetera. And whatever they said it was against what I wanted because I actually want it to be admitted because I knew that already wasn't well, but I went with what they said and I just stayed at home.

3 (6m 3s):
And gradually things just improved. Yeah, no, sorry. Before that I became delusional. Sorry. I became delusional. I started to believe that I was Hitler and I started to believe that my girlfriend was plotting against me. I was just coming out with all these mad, mad things and gradually it just when I don't know what happened, it just sort of disappeared. It wasn't, I wasn't on any medication. It didn't put me on any anti-psychotics it just disappeared. And then from the ages of 17 to 22, 23, I was fairly well. I mean, I actually started walking when I was 18 as a painter and decorator and I, I was doing a right.

3 (6m 48s):
I was, I started going to the gym when I was 2021, got to a decent shape. I felt really good about myself and in the people that I was walking with, I stopped trusting them. I started what I now know is voices. But at the time I started hearing them talking about me and I'd say to them, like, why are you saying that about me? I'm standing right here. And they'd be like, what are you talking about? And I didn't really think anything of it. I didn't really know I was hearing voices. I just sort of, I dunno, I just, it was weird, but I just sort of, I just got on with it and I just carried on yeah. Whatever. I didn't really pay any attention. And as the moms got on and went on and went on and went on, I was just getting more and more unwell. And eventually I quit my job.

3 (7m 29s):
I had a massive argument with the boss and I said, yeah, you're just trying to exploit me. I believe that they were all exploiting me cause I was on the lowest wages I've ever on there because of my age. And I believe that I was doing a lot more work than what I was being paid for. And I believe I still believe this now that I was being exploited. So I was doing a lot of work. So the money they were giving me compared to the other people, my age older than me. And I found out with my boss over and we had a massive 40 an hour and that just sent me on a downward spiral around 22, 23, when this happened. And I stopped working out, I stopped going to the gym. I started getting really depressed, really, really depressed the depression that I'd never felt before to the point when I couldn't get up, I stopped brushing my teeth.

3 (8m 11s):
I couldn't shower. I was just living in my bedroom. I was at my parents at the time and I was just living in my bedroom. It was, I wasn't really leaving my room. I wasn't eating for days. I was staying awake for days on end or I was just sleeping, just ridiculous amounts, like really loads and loads and loads. And I didn't really, I still didn't really realize I was unwell. I was, I still did. I carried on. I carried on with my day to day activities. I didn't have a job, but I had a little bit of savings that I had that I had from, because I'd worked for six years or whatever. So I'd say a bit of money often. I just sort of lived off my savings for a while and I didn't really think anything of it. I just thought that, yeah, I'm not, I'm not ready to work at the moment.

3 (8m 53s):
I don't feel right. I tried to do a few jobs and I ended up falling out with everyone that I was walking forward. And I started noticing a pattern. I said, this isn't right. And then I started working with my dad and me and my dad fell out and things just got really bad. And I lost a lot of weight. I was about 85, 86 kilos when I was in my prime and I was really fit and I was really muffled. It was about 86 kilos. And then I dropped down to about 70 and I just, my, I became so skinny, my arms at the moment. I'm quite skinny to be honest, I've lost a lot of weight recently, but I just became really, really unwell. I was weak. I was skinny. I went to my doctors and I said it, cause I wasn't actually under any mental health people at the time. Cause they, I was under riots when I was younger and cams, but they'd obviously because I was all right for such a long period of time, they just sort of let me go.

3 (9m 40s):
And yeah, it was just a weird one. I started, I went to the doctor and I said, these are the symptoms I'm having. I think that I'm suffering from ADHD. And I thought it was all down to ADHD and autism. And I said, I think this is, I think I'm struggling with ADHD. And she said, okay, then I'll refer you to a specialist. So I went to go and see an ADHD specialist. And she, she sat down with me for an hour and she said to me, you've got really bad ADHD. I can't believe it's taken 23 years for you to be diagnosed. And I said, yeah, I'm quite surprised too, because I've struggled a lot in my childhood. I was kicked out of school. I just didn't concentrate. I was very angry going off and just no one ever picked up on it.

3 (10m 21s):
And she said to me, I think there's more going on than just ADHD. So can we have another appointment where you're going to be assessed? And I said, okay. So I went for an assessment and she said, we think that you've got something called borderline personality disorder. I said, okay, then what's that? And she explained it to me. And I said, oh yeah, that does sound a lot. Like me, the highs and the lows. I wake up in the morning feeling pretty good. And then when five o'clock comes, I start getting low and all these things, I just tied it all into borderline personality disorder. And at the time I received the diagnosis of ADHD, I received the diagnosis of borderline personality disorder and I received the diagnosis of Aspergers. And I put all my oldest is down to this. I thought it was all onboard.

3 (11m 3s):
That explains everything that I've experienced. That explains all the voices that explains everything. And that was it. So during this time I was a mess I've missed about as okay. During the, during this time that I was being assessed for the borderline personality disorder and all the other things I was, I felt like I was having a spiritual awakening. I was adamant that I was having a spiritual awakening, everyone around me. I was telling them, yeah, I'm, I'm feeling really good, but all of the stuff that's been happened to me for the last year now I started my uncle died when I was about 19 and I was really close with him and his death was out of the blue.

3 (11m 43s):
It wasn't there or anything. And he was only 43 when he died. And it just, it was just completely out of the blue and I didn't process it. I just pushed it to the back of my mind and I didn't cry. I didn't deal with it. I don't know if my brain just deleted it. And I started, I started waking up at three o'clock in the morning, every single night to door handles rattling in my room. So I would, I would just start the door handle and it would wake me up. And it would be literally between three o'clock and four o'clock every single night. And then I saw, as I start off the lot, the photo fourth night, I started saying like, yeah, this is where Marla and I Googled online. I said like spiritual awakening, 3:00 AM. And it said online, just the spiritual waking hours between 3:00 AM and 4:00 AM in the morning and this freaks me out even more.

3 (12m 29s):
So I was like, oh, well. So I was like, yeah, I'm having a spiritual awakening. And then eventually I started waking up to things, playing with my hair, things, touching my feet. I could feel a presence in the room when I woke up. I don't know how to explain it, but I could feel cold presence at the end of my bed. And eventually I just, I just ignored this. I just thought it was normal. And I don't know how all the time, but I just thought it was normal. I just, I didn't really tell anyone about it. I didn't really talk to my girlfriend about it at the time. I just sort of just, just left it and I didn't really know how to deal with it. And it got worse. It got progressively worse. I started seeing what I believe to be angels at a time standing.

3 (13m 9s):
So my bed would be like this and they would be standing facing me. That would be facing me head on. And they would be, they'd be standing over me because I'd be lying down. And they'd, they'd tell me things like Zach, you're an angel. You need to grow your hair just in a really nice, calm way. Like you're an angel. You need to grow your hair so you can be more like us. And I was like, oh, okay. So I decided to grow my hair. My hair became long over the course of however long I grew my hair. I started behaving really weirdly. I started going out in the streets, telling people that I need to pick, let her off the floor. I would go up to random people, but I just found her on the floor. You can't do that. Like it's really bad. And I've got to have a massive go at people.

3 (13m 50s):
I'd start like telling people where they could park, where I couldn't park. I started, I wasn't, I didn't get too deep into the religious side of things because I'm not a religious person. I'm an, I wouldn't say I'm an atheist because I do believe in spiritual things, but I'm not religious as in, I believe in a religion. So I didn't, I've never really gone too deeply into the religious thing. But I did believe that I was an angel. I believe that angels were real. And I believed that I was an angel and I started to get really angry while all this was going on. And I believed I was an angel. I started to get really angry. I became, I became smashing things in my room, but I'd have these thoughts where I just thought really impulsive, intrusive force where I'd be sitting down in Jordan.

3 (14m 33s):
And I'd say, I had a graph next to me. I'd just pick the glass up and just Chuck it at the wall. But I'll just impulsively. Just pick the glass up and just go back and just Chuck it out of the wall or I'd start punching things. I'd stand there in front of a brick wall and I'd just go, boom, boom, boom, boom, or stand the hit in my head. Just bang, bang until I nearly out. And it was getting worse and worse and worse and worse. And I still had this all down to borderline personality disorder until eventually my mom was diagnosed with cancer at Christmas. This at the time it was Christmas time. And my mum was diagnosed with cancer. And this sent me on a really, really, really bad spiral because me and my mum went very close and our relationship was really bad at the time.

3 (15m 13s):
And I believe that she, I was really strongly believed that my mom abused me. And she, she heard she was the reason that I become the way I become. And at the time I was really delusional. I believe that my mom and dad abused me. I believe that they treated me in a really bad way growing up. And that led to me becoming, because my mom had out of the blue and this just sent me over the edge. I didn't know how to cope. And then I started hearing voices. Yeah. Telling me to do things. I started hearing. I'm not sure if you know, you've probably seen the film, Harry Potter, Voldemort Voldemort. And I started here in Baltimore.

3 (15m 54s):
He started telling me to kill. I started hearing the voice in my ears when I was out and I saw it and I still put it all down to borderline personality disorder. And then I, I'm not sure how I ended up in north. Cause I'm not sure if you, you, you relate to me on this one, but I forget a lot that happens to me when I'm in psychosis. A lot of it, a lot of it, I forget. And I think it's partly due to anti-psychotics and partly due to not wanting to remember. So your brain sort of deletes it and yeah, I, I, I don't remember. Cause I was so deep into psychotic. This is the deepest I've ever been into psychosis. I was so deep into psychosis at the time. I believe my mom was going to die.

3 (16m 35s):
I believed all this stuff. And I, I was so scared because I was like, we have such a bad relationship. And it got to like March time, April time. And I became really, really unwell. And one of my friends has paranoid schizophrenia. And he said to me, Zach, I think it's time for you to go use, go to the hospital. And obviously I'd never been to the hospital at this point. I was nearly, nearly admitted when I was 17, but it never ended up happening. And I was really scared. To be honest with you, I was really frightened. I didn't know what to expect. I was expecting it to be people smashing things everywhere. And I didn't, I didn't know what to expect. And my, my community mental health team said to me, we've got a bed for you. We'd like you to go into hospital.

3 (17m 15s):
And I said, okay, I'll go. I said, I'll pack all my stuff up and I'll go. And my mom and dad took me to the hospital. It was about eight o'clock at night. I remember going in and I had really long hair at the time. And this lady just walked up to me and she just started calling me Jesus. And it just sent me a bit funny is I was all like, God, these people are going to be harassing me all the time. And I was being really nasty to my girlfriend. At the time I was being really horrible to our, to the point when she couldn't handle being around me. Like she would come to my house before I was hospitalized. She'd come to my house and she'd walked through the door and she'd say hello. And before she'd even get a chance to take her shoes off, I've become, I just, I was so delusional and just convinced that everyone around me was out to get me.

3 (17m 57s):
And she'd say words to me in my head, they'd come across a different, her face started people's faces started turning red. I don't know if other people experienced, but people's faces started turning red. So I'd have a normal conversation with people and they would suddenly turn red and they tied into the devil. Everyone I'd get really scared. And I remember what happened now. I ran up my mom with a kitchen knife. Me and my mum were downstairs and we were having a massive argument. And I was just going off on what I kicked my shoes and they hit the seat and I was screaming really bad things to my mom. And she was saying, she said to me, she was arguing back with me and she was feeding into it. And I just remember getting a knife out of a very big kitchen knife.

3 (18m 40s):
How much orange running up my mom. And then my mom moved out of the way. Thank God. But that's when things went really bad. And that's when I was admitted to the hospital and then fast forward, how many days or hours or whatever I was hospitalized. My girlfriend broke up with me because she couldn't handle the way I was being. I was so I was being, so what's the word? Irrational. I become very, very irrational when I'm unwell. And there's no reasoning with me. Anything you say is if I've got something in my head, there, there is no, there's no telling me otherwise, whatever I've think is whatever I believe. And she just couldn't deal with me anymore. She, she loved me. She loved me to pieces, but she got to a point when she couldn't be around me for our own mental health.

3 (19m 23s):
She said that I was making her on well, by the, by my behavior. And she broke up a man, this really hurt me because we've been together for like seven years. And I'm really hurt, man. They sent me into an even worse downward spiral. And first of all, hospital was all right. I went in, they checked me into my room. I was like, oh, well, I'll get my room. I had a lock on my door, which was fine. I'd walk in shower. I'd walk in, tap on a decent bed. I wasn't campaigning at all. And then I met a few of the other patients. I was really helping people. I was, I was at, because I went in there and voluntarily, I was allowed to go out for a cigarette whenever I wanted. And I was also allowed to walk to the shop eventually.

3 (20m 5s):
And so I would go, I would get other people papers and other patients papers and I'd just help people generally. However I could, if someone wanted a drink, I'll pick up a drink for them, et cetera, et cetera. And I was becoming, I was becoming sort of, I was fitting in, I for the first time in my life, I was around people that were like me and I was so happy. I was, I'd gone from being like depressed to being like, these people were like me. Like these people were experiencing the same things as me. I've never been around other people that are like saying, yeah, I've experienced that. Yeah. This happened to me too. And then we'd laugh about it. We say, oh wow, how crazy was that? Whatever. And I've just never met people like that before. And the hospital I was in, they asked me if I'd like to take her, if I'd like to teach an art class, because they'd seen the art I've been doing over that time that I was in there.

3 (20m 51s):
And they said to me, look, you're already good. Would you like to teach a class? And I said, yeah, we're up for that. I'd love to see. And to teach people and to help people. And the over the next few days, I was meant to be doing a course, teaching people how to paint and draw and whatever. Just anything to do with art and a new patient came in. He came in in handcuffs and he was brought onto the floor. And I was really wary of him because I was very quiet at the time. And I was very, I was withdrawn. I wasn't really speaking. My voices were very intense. I was very quiet. And this guy was the complete opposite of me. He was screaming. He was really aggressive. And this just threw off the whole balance of the ward.

3 (21m 32s):
Cause everyone on the ward up to that point knew each other really well. And then through the whole balance out of whack and I was very naive and I'm not like this anymore because I've been in hospital a few times now, but I was very naive then. And I didn't for everyone that was in there, I wanted to be my friend. And I didn't really understand that people were in there for different reasons. And this guy who was fine with me, he started talking to me, he said to me, oh, what's your name? Blah, blah, blah. And we started, we got, we got into conversations about all different things, about the Illuminati, about all different kinds of, and we was both, we was both really unwell. And we got into different conversations and alcohol fairly well with him. And then one day I was, I came back from the shop and I think I had a bottle of Coke or some sort of drink.

3 (22m 16s):
And I was sitting down and he saw me open it. I literally opened it in front of him. And I went to enjoy some Coke. And he said, yeah, I'm a bit. And I said, well, I have some. And I gave him half of a bottle of my coat. Didn't think anything of it. Then later on that evening, I came back from my leave and he started screaming at me. I walked in and he was like, you put something in my drink, you tried to rape me. I said, whoa, whoa, whoa. And he was like, yeah, I'm feeling all these feelings now that I never had before. Don't talk to me and all this. And I was like, all right, I'm fine. I want to speak to you. And then I didn't talk to him. And I thought that was it. I just want to talk to this guy. He's obviously got in his head that I put something in his drink. That's fine. But he was next door to me. So he was constantly screaming.

3 (22m 56s):
My name, Zach, I'm going to kill you. I'm going to get you. You put something in my drink. And I had to listen to this for hours on end. Every single night I was putting to bed. I had to listen to this guy, screaming, threatening to kill me. And it really scared me. If I'm honest with you. At the time I was very vulnerable and I was very skinny and he was a lot bigger than me. He was twice my size in way and height-wise as well. He was a lot taller than me. I would say it was about a foot taller than me. And he was very big compared to how I was. I was very fragile and I just wanted to get better. And he was, he had it in his head that he was really adamant that I put something in his drink. And I was, I was a rapist. Basically. He told her, he told the whole, he told the whole war that I was a rapist. He had it in his head that I was a rapist. And gradually people stopped talking to me, all the old ladies that were my friend and I was getting the paper for, they stopped talking to me because they believed him.

3 (23m 45s):
I told staff that I was really frightened that this guy was going to do something to me. And I didn't want to do anything back to him. I said, I'm really scared that this guy's going to harm me just to pay the staff didn't care. They really didn't care. All they said to me was, oh, well, he's not going to do anything. There's too many staff here to do anything, but there's no staff here that were in the room. There's like 15 of us. And there's one staff member. And then it just got worse and worse. I mean, I'll remember the draw in one day I was sitting down with my headphones in and my voice is not particularly bad that night I was sitting down drawer and I just, in my own world, I had my headphones on. I was in the communal area and he just came up behind me and ripped my headphones off my head. And I was like, well, what are you doing? Like leave me alone. Cause this is going to be a problem. Now you're, you're actually physically touching me now.

3 (24m 26s):
And the guy said, and he was, I don't care to fight me and fight me. And I was like, man, you're going to kill me. I'm half the size of you. I can't fight you. And I'm really, I'm frightened of you. I haven't done anything to you. And I'm frightened of you. And the guard was auto care, smashed a chair in front of me. The staff just watched it all happen. They didn't care that they really didn't care. They watched it all happen. They just turned their backs. They were just, just didn't care what it was going on. And I reported it 15 times to start 15 times it was on record that I reported I was frightened with him and that he was going to hurt me and nothing was done up until the point when I was allowed out on leave. And I went out and leave and I went into the pound shop or some sort of savers or something. And I bought a kitchen knife. I was so scared.

3 (25m 7s):
I actually went out and bought a kitchen knife. I thought this guy is going to this. Guy's going to kill me while I'm in hospital. The staff are not going to do anything about it. The guy's going to kill me. So I went to the shop for kitchen. I bought into the ward. Wasn't such a straight into the ward, had it on me down the back of my house the whole time I was there. And just, just not to harm him, not at all to harm him, not my intention at all. Wasn't to walk up to him and stop him or anything. I was just so frightened that he was going to attack me and the staff. Weren't going to do anything about it. And I was going to have to fight for my own life. So I, yeah, I was walking around with an eye for a day and then it got so bad that I eventually called my parents up. And I said to my parents that I'm still an involuntary patient here. I don't want to be here anymore because this guy's making my stay here so bad and he's gonna, he's gonna, he's gonna hurt me.

3 (25m 53s):
And the staff members told my parents that if he hit me fast and I hit him back because he was more unwell than me at the time, I would be deemed liable. So even if he was to walk up to me and punch me square in my face, if I turned around and even did anything back to him, I would be the one that would be held accountable, which I don't know if that's true to this day. But I think that I was being lied to, but I'm not, I'm not too sure to be honest with you, but I believed it. And I was really sure that if he attacked me, I would, I would be the one that came out worse. And I said to my mom and dad at a time, please come and get me please because I can't, I can't be here anymore. I'm really scared. And my dad came to get me. And in the time my dad came to get me. I'm not sure if you know, but when you were in hospital, you have to charge your phone and your headphones in, in, in the UK, you have to charge your phone in a, in a, in a, in a, in a room.

3 (26m 38s):
You have to knock on the door and say, I would like to charge my phone, please. Here's my phone. You get a sticker on the back of your phone that says your name, and then they charge it for you. And then they give it to you. When, when, when it's on, when it's charged or when you asked her while I was being discharged from the hospital and I was, they were giving me my medications, et cetera, et cetera, and asking me where I was being discharged to the guy, managed to knock on the door and break into the room. I get my phone and my headphones. And he just smashed my phone on the floor, smashed my headphones on the floor. And I mean, stood there absolutely kicking, kicking the head out of all of it. And I just got the phone as well. And I had no, I was down to no money. All my savings were gone and I just got my phone.

3 (27m 19s):
It was the last thing I bought myself, a pair of headphones and a phone for hospital and the guy smashed out. And I was just so upset. And I didn't, I didn't actually have any where to come out of when I was in hospital, because I was expecting to go back to my mom and dad's house, like where I'd been living for the past 23 years. And they actually social services actually got involved in because I pulled a knife on my mom. My little sister was only, she was at the time, but she was under the age of 16. I think she was around 13, 12, 13. And they basically said that I wasn't allowed to live there because it wasn't safe to her. It was either me or her that was allowed to live, that they could either have me there and she had to go or have part of that.

3 (28m 0s):
And I had to go and obviously I was 23 and she was however old she was. And my parents said to me, son, I'm really sorry, but you can't live here anymore. So I came out of hospital still, really, really unwell. I hadn't got back to her at all. I was still severely severely unwell because I hadn't had the time to recover because this guy had made things 10 times worse. He'd made my voices worse. He'd made my paranoia worse. He made everything really bad and I was discharged. And my grandma and granddad said I could live with them for a few nights. And I was discharged my grandma and granddad. And I went from, I could only stay there a few nights though, because they were, they're really unwell themselves and they couldn't cope with me. And I ended up living in my car for six months Duncan.

3 (28m 40s):
I was homeless for six months and I didn't have anywhere to live. So

2 (28m 45s):
I think, you know, your story what's happened to you up until that point. I think it, I finished shows how much you had to go through how much trauma you had to go through just related to the, to your mental health condition. You know, the real life trauma that happened as a result of being a young man, a vulnerable young man in the system. You know, there's so much extra stuff you have to deal with.

3 (29m 16s):
Yeah. This is what people don't understand on. And I didn't understand it. I mean, as far as the worst thing of it is this guy, he told me, I had just had a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder at the time, borderline personality disorder, ADHD, complex PTSD, and Aspergers disorder, which is now called autistic spectrum disorder. And non-specified sorry, unspecified non-organic psychosis. That was my diagnosis at the time. And I'll just put it all down to borderline personality disorder. But the guy that was actually harassing me in hospital, and I understand now he was on, well, I've been in this place myself. I've actually been in hospital and being in the same way. I forgive him though.

3 (29m 56s):
I was really angry with him for a long time, but now I've learned to forgive him. And I actually think, you know, what? The dude was unwell. He was, he was really unwell. And he was really convinced that I was trying to write them. So in his head, everything that he was experiencing was right. And I forgiven him for that. But at the time I was so vulnerable and I didn't know, these things went on in hospital. I thought these people were supposed to be there to protect you, but how is it possible that he smashed my phone and my headphones when it was in their care, it was in the room that they had locked.

2 (30m 23s):
I mean, I, I was in hospital back around the turn of the century, the turn of the millennium. So it's a long time ago now over 20 years ago. And it was, it was different back then. It was a bit more free and open. We had a smoking room, you know, we had boards, I think there were a single-sex wards. You know, if you wanted to charge the phone, I could charge it whenever I wanted to. You know, it was different rules back then. But I do remember there were people screaming, there were people being violent. And I w I was, you know, probably around the same age as you and I w I would just ignore it or go to the TV room. You know what I mean?

2 (31m 4s):
Because that's what it's kind of frightening. It's frightening at that age, when you're dealing with a serious psychotic condition and people acting in such a disturbing way, you know, you say, I, I do recall that now, looking back, I remember people screaming at night in the corridors and yeah. All sorts of things going on.

3 (31m 29s):
I'll be honest with you. Every say I've been in hospital three times now, and every single time I've been in hospital, I've had a different experience. If you want to run on it more than happy to. But each experience for me has been totally, totally different. I mean, really, really different. And the last time I was in hospital was this year in April, I believe. And it was actually really good. I actually really enjoyed my stay in hospital. I met a lot of people that were really nice and I was the guy that was nice to everyone. And no one was in there wanting to harm me. Everyone was like, hi, I'm Amanda, what's your name? Hi, I'm however, Steve, how are you doing today? And everyone was looking through, but I could see my friend. I made a friend in there at the time, Martha and she, I could work any day at, I could see she was having a bad day.

3 (32m 14s):
Cause we had the same. We had the same similar diagnosis. I go up to her and I say, do you want a hug? Or do you want to talk or whatever? And she do the same for me. It would be, it was just good. It was really good. It was really supportive. And I had my dog there that was coming to visit me regularly. And it was just, it was a good stay. It was a good experience. The only thing that I would say was the psychiatrist that was in there. He, he didn't agree that I have Schizoaffective disorder. He put down to borderline personality disorder. I, my, my team, my consultant psychiatrist was writing to him saying him, but knows that schizophrenia symptoms that are not related to borderline personality disorder. And he was adamant, kept telling the guy at the guy, Zach does not have just borderline personality disorder.

3 (32m 57s):
He doesn't meet the, I don't quite meet the criteria for borderline personality disorder. I do on a few bits, but not fully. So I identify myself as more Schizoaffective, Schizoaffective and ADHD. The other, they're the two main illnesses that I identify with myself. If anyone asks me if I have anything wrong with me or whatever, that's what I would always, I would always say personally, but the doctor at a time, he was adamant that I didn't. And I eventually, when I was, when it became the, I was in voluntary, informal, sorry, I, I discharged myself because me and the doctor in there were just on a totally different page. You want to keep me in there for four months. But he only believed that I had borderline personality disorder yet wanted to keep me in there for months.

3 (33m 39s):
And it just didn't make any sense. And I came out with it on my own back and I just, I was discharged into my own, my own team. Like my, my, my own, I don't deal with the home treatment team because I've never had very good experiences with them. They come to my they've came to my property before and they've spoken really rudely to me and I've had to kick them out and they've said things to me to, oh, you should just get over it. Or why don't you just, oh, I've got this problem, but I go over it. And I'm like, yeah, but those staff schizophrenia, you know what I mean?

2 (34m 8s):
I was in the home treatment team about eight years ago. And I'm wonder traps would talk to me and say, he was, he was saying exactly the same thing. Yes, I, oh yeah, I got over this in my life. And I'm thinking, you know, it's not the same thing as it, you know, because you know, when you're dealing with psychosis, I think also, especially when you're so young and you're dealing with psychosis, it's, it's very challenging. And I think it takes time to build up your insights, your understanding of the illness. Definitely you can combat the symptoms with your right insight and it takes a while for that. And even when you've got that, it's still, it's still difficult.

3 (34m 49s):
Definitely. I agree with you 100% that, I mean, it's a Johnny Duncun, I believe it's a journey. I really believe since I've been on the forums, to be honest with you, I've, I've gained so much, I've met so many different people that are like me and I, I relate to people because when I'm on a day to day basis, I'm not sure if you know the statistics with Schizoaffective disorder, but I believe that it's zero, it's either 0.0 or 0.3% of the population habits. So it's a very, it's rare, you know, there's not a lot of people that have,

2 (35m 20s):
I know schizophrenia is one and a hundred, so Schizoaffective is where it in schizophrenia. So it will be less than that. It is, you know, it's, it's rare. But when you add up the numbers for the population of the UK, for example, we are talking hundreds of thousands here. So there are, there are a lot of folk who have this, we go through psychosis. So it's, it's, you know, I kind of think it should be dealt with better, you know, because I think, cause I went to, I went to visit a friend in, in a mental health ward a few years ago, and now it's like a high, high secure prison.

2 (36m 6s):
It's Chinese, Chinese. It's more about keeping things safe and locked down. Whereas, you know, it's a heavy handed approach, I suppose, you know,

3 (36m 18s):
I'm just following something Duncan. When you asked me earlier, how I dealt with COVID, I was actually in hospital during the peak of COVID. I was actually in hospital last March, April, and it was ridiculous. They weren't adhering to any of the rules. They were putting everyone what they wanted to do. They wanted to keep everyone that they tested everyone as they came in. But the test was still like a four day test at a time or something. So they wanted to test everyone when they came in, then they wanted to put everyone that had been tested in one side of the, of rooms and everyone that hadn't been tested in the office, sorry, I ever going to come back positive in one side of the room and everyone that hadn't been tested in the other side of the rooms. And then they were moving people from the positive, sorry. Once they put negative that when people tested negative, they were moving the negative patients to other hospitals and other wards.

3 (37m 2s):
But what they were doing was they were letting everyone mix in the communal areas. So it didn't make any sense. So someone could, someone could come through and someone could be a new patient walk in there and have COVID and someone who had already been tested four days ago and come back negative would interact with that person. Who'd have COVID. So they'd now maybe half COVID and get sent to a hospital, thinking that they were clear.

2 (37m 23s):
Well, you know, I think the mental health staff who work in these wards, I think they go a little crazy. Do you think so? Yeah, I think so. Yeah.

3 (37m 34s):
I believe the mental health staff that walk in these woods don't really care about us. If I'm honest with you, I can't say all of them. I can't say, cause that's not fair to say.

2 (37m 42s):
And they're probably afraid, you know, they're probably afraid cause they don't understand the condition they are afraid of, of, of the unpredictability of it. So they're not sure what to expect. So I suppose they're kind of shut down, but yeah, I, I, I genuinely feel that everything it's always the case when I go to, as a service use it always, it's always so disorganized and it's as if they're not thinking clearly, you know, the, the staff, I think, I think they, they pick up a little bit of craziness from what, from us,

3 (38m 18s):
You know, it's funny when you say this, right? Because I've, I've met all kinds of staff members in the hospitals. I've met staff members the first time when I was telling them about what was going on and they just ignored what was going on. They could see the guy screaming at me saying he was gonna kill me. And they were just not doing anything about it. Whereas I've also met staff members that are so, so I mean, not they're lovely. They'll go out to the, off to do anything for you. I remember when I was in hospital this year and I had no cigarettes on me cause my cigarettes got lost. I'll tell you, I'll tell you a story. Actually, this year, when I was admitted into hospital in the hospital that I was in there, there's a ward. I can't remember the name of the ward, but what it is, it's an assessment board. So you go from you because there was no beds available.

3 (38m 58s):
Cause it was really busy at the time you'd go into this ward, right. And you'd be expected to stay there for a maximum of two days. I think it was before either being discharged back into the community or before being transferred to an actual ward. And it was crazy. I mean, there was, there was chairs, there was chairs in, there were, it was like a hospital, not a mental health hospital, like a normal hospital that'd be taught. And there was like one car and in between, but not, they didn't go all the way round. It just went in between the patient. So, and then all it was, was it chat? And then like at nighttime they press a button on the chat and it would require them back. But it was so uncomfortable and it was all right. You were allowed to walk around there.

3 (39m 39s):
You were allowed to go out because everyone in there was informal. So you were allowed to go out, you're allowed to have a cigarette. That was all right. But I remember I was really unwell. And now she said to me at the time I was very aggressive at the time. And I was very, my voices were very negative. They were telling me, people were trying to harm me. I was convinced that our team of CID were following me everywhere. I was going. I was, for some reason with me, I know I said earlier, there's a stigma on mental illness. But because of the things that happened to me in my past with the trauma, I still remember the guy that, the guy that mocked me when I was, when I was younger and I still remember his face and I still actually live in the era that he lives in. So I've seen him a few times. And when I get, when I get severely severely ill, I really want to hug him because I blame everything that has happened to me on this guy because of the,

2 (40m 25s):
Yeah. I mean, that probably isn't the reason, but it will be, it'll be something which would not have helped.

3 (40m 34s):
It's not probably what, the reason that I'm able. No, it's probably not, but why don't I get here? Why I believe that it is, for some reason I can fixate on it.

2 (40m 40s):
You're not, you know, something mathematically, which is kind of reassuring. The statistics stayed pretty much the same. So the statistics of how many people become ill with schizophrenia and Schizoaffective are pretty constant. So it does look that that is mostly just predetermined, you know, and obviously light events in life can trigger it. They can trigger it maybe earlier or trigger it at all.

3 (41m 8s):
This is a very interesting subject because I actually spoke to somebody earlier about this and they were saying to me, they believe a lot of mental health is trauma based and I believe it all help. Mental health is trauma based, but you touched on something that I would like to reinforce. I think you can, you can have it. You have it predispositioned in you. I believe when you're born. And I believe what happens in your life will, will account to whether you will actually be other, do I explain it? Do you understand what I'm trying to say?

2 (41m 36s):
So you're basically events in your life. It will trigger the onset. I think, I think that's the same for all of us because we've all had some sort of trauma, but other, other people have trauma as well. And they're fine. You know, I think we're just, we just have it. It's predestined maybe in our genes or something that makes it, makes it come to the surface. Really.

3 (42m 5s):
For some reason, trauma seems to I've from, from what I read a lot about mental health, I'm really interested in it. I'm really, really interested in it, especially since I've became unwell. And for me, I get, it's really strange for me. I don't get, I'm not psychotic all year round. I'm not like a typical person that has schizophrenia. Oh, well, I've been at what I think anyway. I'm not psychotic all year round. I become psychotic around March, April time, progressively psychotic February. I actually get hospitalized around March, April time. And it's weird. It's strange because I know other people that I've, oh, sorry, I've got my promo trauma and psychosis.

3 (42m 48s):
I believe trauma. And I think possibly the trauma and psychosis are linked because people, people that have are attacked, people that are raped people that things have happened to they, they, they try and block it out, I believe. And I believe doing that for such a long time can, this is my passport and I believe it can sort of manifest itself into psychosis from people that I've spoken to and people that I've read about. And that's just my personal experience with it. But like you say, whether they would be predispositioned for that anyway, who knows this is

2 (43m 17s):
Yeah. I mean, it's strange that it's sort of, you know, I don't have the statistics, but this is what I've read. I'm sure I've read that it's mathematically quite constant that it always remains one in a hundred. So something to investigate, you know,

3 (43m 35s):
I wasn't, I wasn't,

2 (43m 37s):
Yeah. The artist is what I grad. So, but anyways, I think we're coming up to time now. I think you had quite a lot to say, and I didn't ask many questions, but I I've, I've said this to a few guests, you know, you're, you're welcome to come back for a second episode, you know, because I think it's good to, to talk about this sort of thing. Obviously you've got a lot to say, which is, which is great. So you're welcome to come back for another episode. I'm good. I hope to do that. I hope to start inviting people back for more episodes so they can continue that story.

3 (44m 10s):
Yeah. I've really enjoyed it. Duncan, as I say, the problem is with me, I've got really pressured speech and I'll have a lot to say and it all sort of comes out in one, go due to the ADHD.

2 (44m 19s):
I think, you know what you have to say. It's very interesting because I really, what really strikes home with me is that, you know, when you have a serious mental condition, like what you have relationships with, difficult family, law effects, family, life expects relationships affects your work. And then when you're in hospital, it affects your relationships inside there. If that's a whole life and then you're dealing with the symptoms on top of that as well, when you're alone, when you're alone and you've got the Sims at the top of that, yeah, it's a lot to deal with. And it's just such a, it's such a bad way that we, when we find there's a stigma that we can't talk about it in normal life.

2 (45m 6s):
You know, if we talk about it a normal life, we're kind of shut down. And, and the media portrays people with psychosis as kind of killers. It's always like, yeah, the guy was diagnosed with schizophrenia and he killed someone, you know, that's the minority. And they do that. Most of us are, you know, quite peaceful and fought for.

3 (45m 29s):
Don't give 100%, I'll be honest with you. Most of the people that I've met in my life that are really unwell are very quiet. They're not, they're not, they're not, they're not, they're not loud. They're not, unless they're going through mania. That's different. Cause I'm quite quiet person. But we went on to become very manic. I get really loud and really just really hard to deal with. And I think, yeah, I definitely agree with you there. There's such a stigma and this is why I wanted to come on today. I'm going to someone who's 26. I'm just, I want to just talk about it.

2 (45m 58s):
Yeah. The other thing is that, you know, sometimes we can blame ourselves. We can attack ourselves and we kind of, and that kinds of forces us back into our shell. You know, when actually we are dealing with something that is quite tough. And I think the general consensus of mental health for all mental health conditions is that talking about it is the best way to deal with it. And we just, we just got to keep on talking about expressing ourselves, you know, because that, that's the, that's the most healthy way of dealing with that.

3 (46m 37s):
And I find Duncan, sorry to cut. You short a problem that I find though, it's a lot of people, don't they say they understand why I've had a few best friends growing up. And I was really close with them. And as I've got older, they just don't want to know me anymore because the times that I've been psychotic, they just don't understand what's going on. I've tried to explain to them, I have Schizoaffective disorder. It's a mixture of basically of schizophrenia and bipolar. And I also have a few other illnesses, but they just don't understand that. I don't know whether it's for ignorance or just they, they don't, it doesn't resonate with them. They don't, they can't, they can't like, they can't sorry. They can't relate. They don't, like you said the same as about the staff in the hospitals, they can't relate because they haven't actually,

2 (47m 20s):
Oh, probably also afraid. You know, it's also when you're, when you're in your early twenties, you know, men like to be, provato be strong, you know? And when somebody has a condition, which makes them vulnerable, this can be threatening to them. It can be actually threatened them.

3 (47m 41s):
Definitely. I agree with you that 100% anywhere.

2 (47m 43s):
I think, I think we're going to wrap it up here. Is that quite, I want to ask you is I'm going to tack some music onto this episode. So I would like you to tell me what kind of John of music you would like me to add to this episode? What

3 (47m 58s):
Would you like me to send you a song or just

2 (48m 1s):
Tell me like you can, you can tell me a song now or tell me you're drawn with that. You like, yeah.

3 (48m 6s):
I've got a song that I really liked for the moment that I'm listening to music really, really, really helps me. I don't know how it is for you. The music really, really helps me with my voices with happiness, just in general, when I I've got songs for every mood that I'm in as well. So I listen to music and yeah, I've got one I'm missing two at the moment. It's Fleetwood Mac dreams. I don't know whether that would fit in with your, with your podcasts though. You might have to,

2 (48m 32s):
I can't actually play that exact track. You

3 (48m 35s):
Get done what? Yeah, yeah, yeah.

2 (48m 40s):
The police will come for me. I can't do it.

3 (48m 46s):
Yeah. Honestly, I'm into all kinds of music, every frame from heavy metal to Indian news, all kinds of news. Honestly,

2 (48m 53s):
Let me just choose something. Maybe kind of something singer song, greatest type H music.

3 (49m 3s):
So begin. They would be nice. Something India, like in a lot of indie music, individual music, just, well, you don't normally hear on the radio, things like that.

2 (49m 11s):
Okay. So let, let me, let me have a look, you know, it's just been a pleasure talking to you, you know, you know, and, and I think you've got a lot to say, and that's interesting because I also have a lot to say, and I think people who go through these experiences have a lot to say, and we've, we've got, we've got to do that. We've got to speak. And you know, you're extremely welcome to come back for another episode and we can talk about it more. I just, yeah. I I'll have to sort that out.

3 (49m 39s):
Yeah, definitely. What, listen, whenever you, you feel like doing it, like I said, whatever works for you. I'm easy, man. I just want to, well, I think what you're doing is really good. So I just want to help you as much as I can just because it is it's they stigmatize de-stigmatizing it. And that's exactly what we're trying to do.

2 (49m 56s):
Okay. Thanks Zack. Absolute purchase. Speak with you. I think we can end it now. So that was Zach telling his story of his Schizoaffective and his ADHD and his PTSD and his BPT journey as a young man going through the school system, I think is extremely worthwhile contributions.