Duncan (32s):
Hello and welcome to another episode of interview with a schizophrenic. I am your host; Duncan Samarasinghe and today I have the great pleasure of having Brad from Oregon on the Pacific coast, in the United States of America. He has a diagnosis of Schizoaffective bipolar type, and he's in his early forties. So welcome to the show, Brad, how are you doing today?

Brad (57s):
I'm good. Thank you for having me.

Duncan (59s):
Absolutely. My pleasure. So what I want to ask you is, if you would give us a little bit of a history of what happened to yo to make you have that diagnosis, what were the triggers? What caused it and how you were treated, if you want to talk about that would be fantastic?

Brad (1m 27s):
Well, I started having an issue sometime when I was in the army, which I served for 15 years and I started to see things. I started to hear things, but everything grew on so gradually that I really didn't know anything was wrong.

Duncan (1m 50s):
What age did you join the army?

Brad (1m 52s):
What's that?

Duncan (1m 52s):
What age did you join the army?

Brad (1m 52s):
I joined the army in 2003. So I was 25.

Duncan (1m 57s):
Okay. Fine. And did you have any symptoms before that?

Brad (2m 1s):
I did not.

Duncan (2m 2s):
Okay. Fine. So it started, it started while you were serving [your country], it started then. Okay, fine. Okay. So can Yeah please carry on, will be interesting to hear your story.

Brad (2m 14s):
Yeah. So while I was serving in Iraq the second time I was struck by lightning and my wife and I are pretty sure that that's when, about when I started having issues. And I don't know if it was from a brain injury or, or what from that point. But as I said, I really didn't think I had a large issue or wasn't aware that I had an issue, but I was in the mental health system for a lot of depression and anxiety and things like that. But one day sitting on the porch of our apartment and in Los Angeles where I was going to school, I asked my wife what her thoughts sounds like.

Brad (3m 2s):
And she thought it was a very odd question and tried to describe how thoughts work inside of her head and realizing that this was a very different process for her as it was for me, that kind of began my journey to being medically retired out of the army for my Schizoaffective disorder.

Duncan (3m 25s):
Okay. So, okay. Find, so you spent 15 years in the Army, you were stationed in Iraq and you were hit by lightning bolt, which may have been a trigger for some type of psychosis and that eventually made you medically retired. Did you see much action when you in the army?

Brad (3m 53s):
I was there as a construction engineer, so I saw except for a lightning blast and then one Morter that came in kind of close to me. I saw no action.

Duncan (4m 5s):
Okay. Fine. But you were still in in a war zone.

Brad (4m 9s):
I was still in a war zone, I mean, they were still, there was still things happening around me, but never to me.

Duncan (4m 16s):
Okay, cool. So, so when you came, so obviously you came home to America and then that is when you found out that you were not, your mind wasn't working as it should, should be.

Brad (4m 34s):
Yeah. Many years later, like 10 years later

Duncan (4m 39s):
After a lightning bolt.

Brad (4m 41s):
Yeah.

Duncan (4m 42s):
Okay. Fine. So why don't you tell us about that? Let's um. So you saw a psychiatrist. What happened there?

Brad (4m 51s):
I saw many psychiatrists, but I went through a pretty big circus of diagnoses on there initially, you know, just, you've got some anxiety issues here take this and take this Ativan, or you have depression try this SSRI. And they kept trying me on different, kept trying on different antidepressants thinking I was just depressed and none of them seem to really work for me. And in fact, all they did was cause side effects that made things worse.

Brad (5m 30s):
But eventually when I was in Los Angeles going to grad school as a, as an army assignment, I was seeing the air force doctors instead of army doctors. And they seemed a lot more willing to diagnose me, and then they didn't have a psychiatrist on staff. So they sent me to a civilian psychiatrist, and that was the time when they started giving me what I felt like was true and real diagnoses, which was good for my mental health and for making me live a better life and everything.

Brad (6m 11s):
But it was a career killer for me.

Duncan (6m 14s):
Yeah. I mean, okay, fine. But there's a few things there. For one thing, once you get the diagnosis which are most comfortable with, which explains most of your symptoms, you can work on your recovery. And once you start working on your recovery you can work on building a better life. So yeah, obviously the, you know, let's say, you know, everybody with some sort of schizo type disorder goes through tremendous changes with their occupation, you know, I think that happens to pretty much all of them, you know?

Duncan (6m 58s):
So, I mean, are you retired now? Is there anything that you want me to get back into the work in a working environment. I mean, you think that you can?

Brad (7m 8s):
I tried working at five different jobs after I was retired from the army and my condition made them all untenable to where I couldn't do it. So I am, I am just retired now.

Duncan (7m 20s):
Okay, fine. So I mean, when you are retired, how do you spend your time?

Brad (7m 32s):
My wife would tell you, I just spent most of my time just kind of following her around the house, wandering what she's doing, but I spent a lot of time with video games. I do, I do write on my blog. Yeah. And then I'm working on a memoir about my mental health journey through the military right now, too.

Duncan (7m 54s):
Yeah. That's why you've got a blog about your life experiences with Schizoaffective in the Army, which is, you know, that's a fantastic, because I think the more and more that we talk about what we are going through and we make it so that people can hear our stories, you know, that it's going to break down the stigma surrounding schizo type disorders. You know, so that that's a great thing you are doing with your writing. And, you know, because if you, we have got to be heard you know?

Brad (8m 33s):
That was one of my big goals is to do my part as an individual to erase some stigmas. I mean, here I am with all kinds of training to where I can be a violent person, but there's absolutely nothing violent about me. I'm not a violent person.

Duncan (8m 51s):
Is there a community of veterans? Because I know, you know, they were veterans, some of them do we develop psychosis due to being in a war zone. Is there a local community for veterans that you can attend or, or anything like that?

Brad (9m 11s):
There's really, there's really not. And I don't live in a very, I mean the closest city to me is Portland and that's two hours away. So I live in a pretty small community. There is a, there is a veterans of foreign Wars here, but from my experience, that's more of a drinking club and a bar than is that. And with my medication, I don't drink at all.

Duncan (9m 39s):
Okay, fine. Yeah. I figured it must be a I. I've got no idea, but I think of, when you say a small town, I think of like in First Blood [Rambo] with Sylvester Stallone. Yeah, man, what's your town like, man?

Brad (9m 57s):
It's actually a really friendly, really inclusive town. For instance, the town is loaded with pride flags and ah, it's a very inclusive town. I don't think anybody feels uncomfortable here.

Duncan (10m 15s):
Thats nice.

Brad (10m 17s):
It is. It is a really nice, it reminds me of the small towns I grew up in the Midwest, except for if you're different here, it's appreciated.

Duncan (10m 27s):
Can you talk about, can you be open about your mental health condition or is that not something you can do?

Brad (10m 37s):
Yeah, I'm actually pretty open about it. I, as I say, I am out of the crazy closet.

Duncan (10m 43s):
Yeah.

Brad (10m 44s):
So no all my neighbors know about my condition, my, my friends here, they know I'm pretty forthright with it.

Duncan (10m 53s):
Yeah. I mean, because I definitely believe that it is that it's the thing to do because at the end of the day, it's just a medical condition. It's not as if it we're, wer'e witches or something, you know, it's not something, you know, it was kind of medieval that you are not allowed to talk about a medical condition that you have because people fear it, you know, I would say, yeah, we've got a talk about it. We got to be open. And I think you've got, you get to a certain age where you say, well, look, I'm not going to just keep it quiet. This is part of my identity. You know, this is part of who I am.

Brad (11m 30s):
Yeah. And I'm able to, I'm able to do that on my part of the United States. Now, when I lived in the middle of the United States in Kansas, which was my first home after I got out of the army, I was not able to do that so much.

Duncan (11m 47s):
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, yeah. But it also your older now, I mean, not that as well. And it is also sometimes you kind of just want to be introverted. I think, I think that's part of the condition that you just don't want people prying in. You know what I mean? I guess that, like, I think that's just comes the time when you think what the hell? I'm just going to say, say what I want and be who I am. So yeah. Let's me ask you some questions. How did, how did your, your friends react throughout your lifetime?

Duncan (12m 34s):
Now that you've gone through the army and are now medically retired. How did your friends treat you?

Brad (12m 46s):
Mostly of them? Pretty good. I mean, I, I kind of back before I knew what it was going on with me and I was kind of spiraling through life a little bit. I kinda disillusioned a lot of my friends then. So I lost most of my friends. There are some that I still have now, and it's, it's, it's a changed relationship. But the problem that I have is that with that is it's, it's not really fair for me to comment on this because I live a long ways away from any of them right now. So my relationships with them or just on Facebook.

Duncan (13m 27s):
Yeah. Yeah. I think that's perfectly understandable. I think I'm, you know, for my own life story, I think when you're going through some difficult, like this, people are, your friends can distance you. And the reason I ask the question is because it's just, I just wanted to show people how hard it can be with this condition, because sometimes the ones close to us, can you just let us go, you know, I think it's, you know, so it just, that's the way that the way life is, is, you know, it's difficult, especially when you are in your twenties or thirties, you know, that it's, it's difficult for people to understand.

Duncan (14m 20s):
Yeah. So tell me Brad what, what, when you are at home, do you do your experience? Are you experiencing psychotic symptoms? And if so, do you employ any coping methods to help you at soothe your mind?

Brad (14m 40s):
Yeah. At my home, I'm usually in really good shape. It's kind of my home base and I don't have a lot of issues there. I have, 'em when I have problems, it's usually when I'm around strangers, like for instance, last night, we were at a Halloween party. Yeah. And the only person I knew there was the couple that was hosting it and my wife and my own children. And I got to the place to where I couldn't do it anymore. So I turned to my wife and I said, I, I would really like you to take me home.

Brad (15m 20s):
And we just all leave at that point, but the host family was somebody that knows about me and knows about my condition. And April, my wife was able to just go and tell them, hey, Brad is having issues. So we are going to take 'em home. And by the time I got home, I was okay. Now in the car. I did take a rescue drug a Klonopin so I wouldn't have a panic attack, but kind of derailed the rest of my day. But once I got home, I was good.

Duncan (15m 56s):
Yeah. I think home, you know, there's got to be a safe place if it's not a safe place, it's not home. So you know that it's gotta be. Brad, do you smoke? Do you take nicotine?

Brad (16m 10s):
No. You don't? Have you ever smoked? Yeah. The last time I had a cigarette was in Iraq. I quit when I left there. Okay.

Duncan (16m 21s):
Okay. Fine. Fine. Okay.

Brad (16m 23s):
When I smoked, when I was a bar tender or back in college.

Duncan (16m 28s):
Okay. Fine. I mean, because a lot of people with these conditions do take nicotine in some form or the other. So have you experienced being bullied?

Brad (16m 48s):
Being bullied? Not really no. Growing up. I was kind of a friend's with everybody.

Duncan (16m 55s):
Yeah. Okay. And what sort of, what sort of hobbies do you enjoy while you're at home?

Brad (17m 3s):
I am a shameless video game addict, but lately with what's the, the science term for it, anhedonia, with the anhedonia, I don't even care to play video games.

Duncan (17m 19s):
Is that the apathy thing?

Brad (17m 22s):
The apathy thing and the inability to experience pleasure.

Duncan (17m 34s):
I used to be a gamer as well, and to be honest I don't play as much as I used to. I can't, I just can't get it into it.

Brad (17m 43s):
That's where I'm at too.

Duncan (17m 45s):
Yeah. It's a strange, because I'm, you know, i love all that stuff but just can't get into it.

Brad (17m 52s):
Yeah. and then a, I am trying to get back in the scuba diving. Okay.

Duncan (17m 58s):
Okay. That's good. Can you scuba dive locally?

Brad (18m 2s):
No, I, I did. I did. In of all places, Alaska, I scuba dove up there, but, and then I got married and life happened and

Duncan (18m 16s):
Yeah. I mean, you know,

Brad (18m 18s):
I know I'm starting to get back into it, my kids are at an age where I can have hobbies again.

Duncan (18m 23s):
Yeah. you just got to take it easy. You've got to work on your recovery and you know, so I mean I guess that's fine. So I'm like, okay. I just want to ask you one more question. Is there anything I haven't asked that you would like to talk about that?

Brad (18m 43s):
Oh gosh. I don't know. Cause we, we covered like the stigmas and stuff and that's always my big topic I like to talk about is that, you know, schizophrenia, it's, it's a, it's a, it's a brain disorder. It's, it's something real that happens to people. Yeah. And even though we don't understand that completely, you know, I wouldn't shun somebody because there's something wrong with their heart, but you know, there's something that's wrong with, with our brains. Hmm.

Duncan (19m 15s):
Right.

Brad (19m 18s):
Yeah. Not saying that we should be discriminated against about, but yeah.

Duncan (19m 24s):
Did you feel that you've been discriminated?

Brad (19m 32s):
Well, on a personal level more than a professional

Duncan (19m 35s):
Yeah. Yeah. No, I know I've experienced it as well, so yeah. It's not a nice feeling And. Yeah. I mean that, that's kind of what, you know, I, that, that's why, you know, writing a blog and me through this podcast, I think it is so important that we, we have a voice and that way we just, we let people, if they said, you know, if somebody says what is schizophrenia? Well, you can read about it on the internet and you could read a blog. Well, you can listen to this podcast. You know, you can understand it, you can understand that you can hear it from the horse's mouth and, and you know it just to see that it's a condition.

Duncan (20m 22s):
It's a mental health condition. It's not a personality trait. Yeah. Okay. Brad what sort of music do you like to listen to? What sort of genre?

Brad (20m 34s):
Oh lately I've been listening to a lot of eighties and nineties punk music.

Duncan (20m 39s):
Okay. Fine. Punk music. Okay. Do you know, like any of that retrowave, synthwave stuff. It's like, it's like an inspired by the eighties synthesizer music. Do you know what I mean?

Brad (21m 2s):
Like, like I am not familiar with that.

Duncan (21m 8s):
Okay, fine. So eighties and nineties punk music. I shall look for that and see what I can do. Thank you very much for talking to me today. It was a real pleasure.

Brad (21m 22s):
Thank you for the opportunity.

Duncan (21m 24s):
No problem at all and I enjoy the rest of your day.

0 (21m 26s):
<outro music>