1 (31s):
Hello and welcome to another episode of Interview with schizophrenia. I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I have the pleasure of having Eagle from Helsinki and Finland and he's 22 years old and he has a schizoaffective diagnosis, Halloween Eagle. Welcome to the show. How you doing today?

2 (56s):
Hey, I'm doing all right. Been a long day. They've been getting a little slower or a little darker, so, you know,

1 (1m 5s):
And I haven't been, I've never been to Finland actually I have now is it, does it get dark quietly?

2 (1m 12s):
Yeah, it does. Like now, I mean, it's, it's like seven o'clock and it's good and it's getting dark, but you know, eventually it's going to be pitch black at, before, you know, four o'clock, five o'clock that kind of thing.

1 (1m 28s):
Do you live in the city or do you live in a, in a peaceful area or

2 (1m 32s):
Living in a city, but it's not like the city there is like, you know, we're about 30 minutes out, so there is a hell of a city, but that, that place gets a little bit pricey.

1 (1m 45s):
Yeah. Okay, fine. Let's start. So what I was going to ask you is if you give us some background to your condition, when you first noticed the symptoms, what symptoms did you have? Did you go into a hospital or were you diagnosed for your doctor? If you just give us a little bit of a background so we can understand how it started for you?

2 (2m 16s):
Yeah. I can guess that the first, like, indication that I would have noticed anything in the earliest memories I have is around maybe nine or 10 years old. This was elementary school back in the United States. And I was sitting in my room that like, you know, it's like kind of a loft area and ah, there's a hallway that leads down to a bedroom and I would be, you know, looking at a TV or something. And the hallway is to my left and I can see in the hallway, there's somebody standing in the hallway.

2 (3m 0s):
And, and as I, as I see him there, I'm not directly looking at them. Someone's standing in the hallway, but he's, I'm not, I'm not straight up looking at him. I turn my head and it has gone, but that's, that's consistent throughout the times I lived at that house. I moved around a lot, but that house was a specific to that. Hallways have always been kind of an issue for me, a when I'm in that for a while,

1 (3m 26s):
You know, people would consider it an apparition or, or something of that nature. What did you consider that? Or,

2 (3m 37s):
No, not, not at that age. I was more thinking like it was nothing and that's, that's kind of the crazy bit. Is that up until maybe I was 17, 18, maybe even like mostly 17. I think I thought that I was completely, you know, levelheaded completely, I guess, like mentally normal and that nothing that I was experiencing, anyone else had also like not experienced. So, you know, I didn't think much of it. These things didn't really bother me to a level where I would think, Hey, maybe something's up.

2 (4m 25s):
I w I can remember similar instances of that just happening in that still, you know, kind of occurred to today. Like, you know, just those kinds of visual things, where if I'm kind of idle or in the still space, then things will start to kind of happen into a way where like, but it's not, it's not scary, but it's not, it's not like, you know what, I feel like other people with wanting to be comfortable. Yeah, exactly comfortable.

2 (5m 5s):
And then I had a couple of instances when I was a bit older where I had the it's the auditory stuff that really gets to me because the visual stuff or the visual stuff is normal for me. Cause it's happened for so long. Like I said, since I was, you know, a kid that I'm just kind of used to, it kind of numb to it. It doesn't bother me so much that when I see it, I can just be like, okay, Hey, like that, it's not like it didn't happen because it did happen, but it's not going to hurt me. I'm not going to die or anything like that. But then this auditory stuff, the first instance of that, I was around 1514.

2 (5m 52s):
And I can't remember what is said ever when those things do happen, it's nothing nice. But the last thing I remember doing, as you know, I, I get up at about four in the morning and I go to my mother's room and I'm just like, I don't know what's going on. And that was the first, that was the first instance of like a hospitalization, but there was a voluntary one. It wasn't, I've never been like in voluntarily hospitalized. And also I have been listening to your show a little bit and the common theme I've heard with some of these psychosis.

2 (6m 39s):
Cause that's what it was for me when I was that young as I was just a, it was a psychosis. And then the common theme I've heard is that there's like some sort of drugs involved or hallucinogens involved or something like that. I haven't listened to all your episodes, but the first few that I've heard, that's been a common theme. And that does occur with me to learn a bit later. But this one, the first one, it was just completely like just something like snapped, you know? And I ended up going to a hospital, but they didn't really take me seriously with the symptoms I was describing.

2 (7m 20s):
You know, I tell them like, Hey, this stuff is bothering me, these hallucinations, these visual cues, these auditory things. And they're just like, you have depression, here's a bottle of, you know, Prozac. I think that's what they gave me was Prozac.

1 (7m 39s):
You it's strange because when you tell it to me and to the listeners who used to this now, you know, we, we forget yet you've had hallucinations or it's strange in a normal everyday life. You know, it's kind of like an extreme condition and people, I guess, normal medical people, they kind of deny it, you know? And he is frustrating because I remember once I, I was having awful and he said, I wanted to go to a hospital and they wouldn't let me go in. And they, they didn't believe me. So, you know, I kind of can see where you're coming from you now is not something that you can prove.

2 (8m 18s):
Yeah. I was going to say, it's not you, can't, it's a hard thing to prove, you know, somebody it's like, you have to like plug somebodies consciousness into your own so that they can experience what you're going through.

1 (8m 31s):
You can't really prove it. So it just comes down to the common human courtesy of trust and the medical physician, listening to your symptoms and accepting them, which is what I would do. If you had a bad back, you'd say my back is in pain. It's over, they're down the left side, you know, can you have a look? And they would believe you, so, yeah. Is he a carrier? So what, so you were in the hospital for voluntary admission. Yeah. Like, and how you, you were talking about like giving you a depression medication, Prozac.

2 (9m 10s):
Yeah. And then, you know, they gave me anxiety medication to give to me, I don't know, what's, The the pharmaceutical term, but in the brand name was cool on a pin.

1 (9m 25s):
I have a bit,

2 (9m 27s):
I think it's a clonazepam or something really kind of intense benzo. And they just give me a bit like, you know, two months supply of it in one bottle and they say, Hey man, take that when you feel like you need it, I'm 14 at this point. And I'm like, okay, these things, they, they, they make me feel normal, like in a way that I'm not freaking out about the things that I'm stressed out, you know, I'm in high school, I'm in a row doing extracurriculars. I'm trying to graduate. I'm not doing so well, cause I'm hallucinating all the time.

2 (10m 8s):
And so I ended up taking these, you know, benzos for a really long time. And that was not a good idea. Like, I don't know what prescribing doctor allowed me to do that. Like they should not have given me all that because that stuff's not easy to come off of when you take it for a really long time. And so I kinda, I kinda I'm a little bitter about that, but you know, anyway as time passes, I kind of get when used to it, but then I moved to Finland in 2016.

2 (10m 51s):
Yeah. Right after high school, I had graduated from a school in Denver and then I moved to Finland in 2016 and I had a, you know, the same issues because, you know, they gave me antidepressants and benzos and I'm just like, this is not how I should be treated. And I moved here. I ended up going through, they're a healthcare system and I do another voluntary hospitalization just to see if I can get some better, better help. And they ended up giving me a diagnosis of bipolar disorder.

2 (11m 35s):
And that was kind of the start of getting me to Schizoaffective. Because again, they're not really taking me so seriously with the hallucinations in Finland I've noticed everything, mental health wise, they they're trying to treat the depression. That's a big issue here.

1 (11m 60s):
Yeah. It's like a cliche, isn't it? Yeah. So carry on. Yeah.

2 (12m 8s):
And you go in with, you know, any, any sort of psychotic symptom, any sort of a non, even a non psychotic symptom. If it's a mental health related than you must have depression and you must be, he must be drinking a lot too, because you know, again, like he, like you're saying, it's like a, it's a stereotype, you know, it's, it's a stereotype, you know, based in reality here because you know, people have that issue, but it's not, it's not exactly what I'm dealing with. I have not been one to be like depressed very much. So, you know, they're not taking me seriously with the hallucinations, but they get me on a sodium valproate rate.

2 (12m 53s):
And that helps a lot with my mood. And I've been taking that, you know, for the last four years. And it's been wonderful. Like, I, I know that there's a, some camps that will, you know, describe like, you know, don't take medication and all that, but you know, there are some, there are, you know, it's not, it's not for everybody and all that I understand, but you know, for me, this thing works a lot.

1 (13m 24s):
It's a trade off, isn't it? Yeah. And if you're, it depends how seriously you take hours, seriously, you trust the medication. And if you're willing to work through the side effects that it's a trade-off. And I think most people who are psychotic or, or bipolar, they, they will take their medication. Right. And, and I think there may be 10 years later, you might join an anti-psychotic tree movement and say to, you know, whatever. I mean, yeah, it's a difficult one, but yeah, yeah.

2 (14m 1s):
A bit of, a bit of a touchy subject, but you know, it's, you know, for me it works and I couldn't, it's hard to recommend like medication for anyone because you can't tell what people are going through. And he can't tell what works with people. And I'm just not one who gets side effects really ever. So it's always been all positive for me to get this, but then I had, I did have a, another psychosis and this one was like a cannabis induced. I think that was in 2017. That was a really, really, really, really bad one, like complete loss of reality and all that.

2 (14m 51s):
And that was another, that was another a hospitalization, but it was only for one day because they figured, Hey, you, you smoke too much. And then, you know, you just lost it. So don't do that anymore to go home. And that was a real big, like turning point in my life psychologically because, you know, I have been smoking for a long time and I just stopped like that day. And it's been a really good for me to be sober. And I've always thought that, you know, if I, if I can't tell if I can, you know, still have the symptoms and be sober, then I know I'm not faking it.

2 (15m 40s):
But like, I've always thought that I, I, I it's always been that creeping thing in the back of your head, like, Hey, am I faking it? Is it the drug's? Is that right? Yeah. But, you know,

1 (15m 51s):
Yeah. I think, I think, I think the paranoia, I used to have a paranoia when I was claiming sick with the benefits I thought, do I really deserve the benefits? You know, am I actually quite well and am I, is this just, is this just my just kinda making a big deal out of this? You know? And, and, and just kind of like a self, self stigma, you stigmatize yourself and he felt, you know, and, and it's, yeah. It's, yeah,

2 (16m 24s):
It is not good, especially because like a venue, if you don't take yourself seriously, no one else will, and it's already difficult enough to get someone to take you seriously in most healthcare systems that I've found. But when I, I was in, I was in a Finland for about a year and a half, sorry. And I moved back to the States for about a year, just, you know, to work and stuff and get some money in whatever. And I went back to a psychiatrist and I told them about my hallucinations and I really kind of emphasized that then.

2 (17m 10s):
And they said, it sounds like Schizoaffective, it doesn't sound like you're a bipolar. And so I finally, I finally got my diagnosis there and that was 20, either 2018 to 2019. And that was, that was like, you know, a big like, Whoa, finally, you know, I'm, I, I get it now. Like I look because the end, it was funny because when I was about 14, I asked my, my psychiatrist. I was like, are you sure I'm depressed? Are you sure it's a schizophrenia disorder?

2 (17m 50s):
Like I remember saying this in her office to her. And she says, no, no, no, you're just anxious. And when I told that story to my psychiatrist in 2019, and she said, well, of course you were anxious, you were hallucinating. You know, it makes it makes sense. And it, it just really gratifying, you know, to be taken seriously in such a way that, you know, I can get that kind of, that kind of explanation to, as what's going on.

1 (18m 23s):
I agree is a huge battle to get the correct diagnosis or a diagnosis, which matches closely to your experiences. Because, I mean, I think, I think I only got diagnosed with actual schizophrenia in 2010, and my other diagnosis was, was psychotic episodes. And it takes a while for them to take you seriously and you put up, you're going to be quite determined to make your voice heard. And, and I think for you, obviously you had to go to the United States because in Finland, they have, like you say, they have an obsession with depression.

1 (19m 7s):
So, I mean, you know, so the same, did they prescribe any medication?

2 (19m 16s):
Yeah, a bit a, just in addition, you know, the what's that brand name a for a bill of Abilify. Yeah. They just gave me that I quite a high dose for me. I haven't, I have taken it in the past, but only at like, you know, two and a half milligrams or something, but now it's like quite high. So, but again, like I've had, I've heard really bad side effects about those. Like, I've read about really bad side effects there, like weight gain and all that stuff. And I just don't really get it. So I'm, you know, I'm, I feel good. You know, I'm really in a good place mentally right now.

2 (19m 59s):
I feel like consistent consistently. Like I've had the hallucinations and the, you know, some sort of anxieties about this stuff, but it's been about the same since I was, you know, 10, so I I'm quite used to it, but otherwise I'm feeling quite fine.

1 (20m 17s):
So at the moment you're quite stable, but I mean, you did tell me that you do have a little bit of paranoia. I mean, is that true?

2 (20m 30s):
Yeah. I mean, they're, there is definitely, you know, some sort of things to think about for me. Like whether or not if that person, you know, that just past me is actually like following me, but they keep following me from like, you know, walking around the block twice as fast as me going home. And they're just like keeping an eye on me or if there's a, you know, like I have a real problem with staring, I feel like everyone is staring. Like I have that.

1 (21m 14s):
Yeah. I mean, I think it's good that you are feeling in a, in a, mostly in a good state and then you kind of know yourself, you know, what can, you know, what you, that you makes you find uneasy and what makes you uncomfortable? So that's kind of a good, because I think you definitely must have a good level of insight. I would say to agree with me. Think so. Yeah.

2 (21m 42s):
Yeah. It's been a long time, you know, to kind of experience this stuff. It's always, it's just been, this is the only time it's been fine. Like 20, 20, it's been a hard year for a lot of people, like a very hard year for a lot of people. But to me and my family, its been like one of our, one of our best years, you know, mental health wise, financially, you know, stability, home wise, all that stuff. Like we're good. It's it's, it's just like, it's kind of interesting. Cause a lot of people who would think that like, Oh you have a schizophrenia disorder. You're not going to make it.

2 (22m 23s):
Like you have like this death sentence. That's what I thought that like, you know, Oh, I got diagnosed Schizoaffective. Now I'm going to be on disability. I'm going to be, I'm going to be like, you know, un-useful to myself and to my household and stuff. But it's like, it's not true. Like you can do like, you know, and get through in some ways,

1 (22m 48s):
What is, what is your, what is your occupation? What the study, what is it that you're going to do with your life? That is going to be a positive

2 (23m 1s):
Right now. I'm just waiting for this language school to start back up again because you know, with the whole, a Corona thing going around at that got put on hold, it's just a bit, it was a, it was online classes and then it stopped. And then, you know, now it's like, I have a meeting again to go back and then, you know, January is coming up. January is when all people apply to school. So I'm just going to get an a, I'm trying to get into this one school I applied to last year, but missed by a margin for, you know, forestry. I really like the woods. I really like, yeah.

2 (23m 42s):
The outdoors stuff. I collect knives. I, you know, do all that

1 (23m 48s):
Kind of cool. I think, I think that's going to be good. Like a, like a well chosen profession for this kind of condition because it's so fair P tech and just help.

2 (24m 0s):
Yeah, exactly. Like the whole, the whole like we, me and my family were just out in the woods today now near a Lake boat. And I don't know if you ever heard of that band, children of Bodom or that tragedy, the children of Bodom, but we are out there. It's a really pretty place really, you know, in the deep woodsy kind of deal. But you know, the whole dream is to have a house in Lapland and do The do the tours and did the expedition guiding and all that stuff in the winter.

1 (24m 35s):
That's awesome, man. That's awesome. Okay. So let me say hello. I'll ask you some questions. How did your family sounds very supportive so that, you know, I think that's true. Isn't it? What about your friends? I mean your friends, it must be difficult with you moving different countries from Helsinki to America. What, how did your friends treat? Because I'm just wondering, I always get questions because sometimes people do receive some sort of a stigma from people that I know and it can be quite painful, you know? So, you know, sometimes you have a, you have this condition and then also your loved ones.

1 (25m 21s):
Sometimes they can turn on you.

2 (25m 23s):
Yeah. I've only been asked like, Hey, you're not going to kill us in our sleep. Like once. So that, that was the worst.

1 (25m 33s):
Yeah.

2 (25m 36s):
But you know, my friends, my friends from the States I've always been like, they kind of knew, so they weren't like tripping about it or anything when that happened. But also my circles are really small and I moved around a lot, like he said, so there's not a whole bunch of people who you no, no. And I need to know and like care that much. Like so, but you know, with my family, you know, it's all very tight. They don't, they don't mind at all.

1 (26m 9s):
That's cool. Okay. I'm going to wa we're almost at the end. What I wanted to ask you. One more question. Well, kind of a question is if there's anything I haven't asked you, but you would like to tell me about any point you'd like to raise anything. Now's your chance? What is it you'd like to say?

2 (26m 33s):
No, I don't think so. I would, I would, I would say like, you know, it's not, if you're like, like the, the hardest thing for me was just like getting newly diagnosed and, you know, I would just say for someone who is newly diagnosed, if that's a scary thing for you and that you're feeling kind of down about it, it's not, you've, you've, you've had it, you know, it's not like you just got diagnosed and now you have it. So you can, you can, you're still, you're still, you, you know, you're still okay.

2 (27m 14s):
Like, you know, to be, to be living and stuff. So I just, I just think that, you know, some words of encouragement better stated than me could, would be. Yeah.

1 (27m 28s):
Yeah. I know you may. I think it has no reason to be a friend it's always better to seek help while to ignore the symptoms. And it's like, what you said earlier, it's not like a sentence, like a death sentence. Yeah. But you can still, even people who you know about the services around with your not working, there's so much, so many things you can still do and you know, so it just, the main thing is just to get help. Isn't it really,

2 (28m 0s):
I would say. So if you're, if you're getting diagnosed, you're already there, you know, you're in the office. It'll it's all good. It'll be there.

1 (28m 10s):
Okay, cool. I think we wrap this up. Eagle I just want to ask you what type of music do you like a bit so I can add on to the end.

2 (28m 18s):
Music all right. Well, I'm a total metal head, but if, if I would be remiss not to plug my friend's band, he is the hot babe rubbers on Spotify. So yeah, definitely check that out. It's it's a, you know, punk rock kind of stuff. Real good.

1 (28m 40s):
Okay. Well, thank you very much. Speaking with me today. You're my first guest. Finland you know, I think, you know, I think you've experienced the lie that young age, but I've got a great,

2 (28m 57s):
Yeah, no problem.

1 (29m 40s):
<inaudible>

0 (30m 60s):
<inaudible>.