1 (31s):
Hello and welcome to another episode of interview with a schizophrenia. I'm your host. And today I have the great pleasure of having Jasper with me. Jessica is 25 from Kentucky and he has a Schizoaffective disorder depressive type. So welcome to the show, Jasper, how you doing today?

2 (53s):
Oh, I'm doing pretty good since this is a Saturday.

1 (56s):
Yeah, it's a, the weekends always like what are you working Monday to Friday or,

2 (1m 2s):
Yeah, I work every weekday and every once in a while we'll have to work on Saturday, but I've only had to do that once in the last several months. So that's good.

1 (1m 12s):
That sounds good. So what it is, if, if you can give us a summary of your mental health journey from a month from how it began, you know, how, how you go into the medical system, how we'll start it off, you know, that would be great. You know, you can, it's up to you for how long you talk and I've got a list of questions I can ask as well. So off you go,

2 (1m 37s):
Okay. Well, there's a lot, despite the fact that severe mental illness runs in my family, there, we have a lot of a stigma against getting treatment and that has led to a lot of problems in my family over the generations. But so getting treatment was difficult because my parents really didn't want me to start doing that. They were more concerned that I would say something bad about them, and they're really concerned with keeping up appearances. And, but anyway, so I just, my first therapy that I went to was with my college, they had a counseling program and I was just feeling really depressed.

2 (2m 28s):
So went there, that's where I started. And I did a lot of things behind the rest of my family's back at first, but after I was medicated for a while and things were fine, they seem to get over it and I didn't have to do it in secrecy basically anymore.

1 (2m 55s):
Do you think they were just afraid that, you know, it was like a complicated fear emotion of what they expected would happen if, you know, if you started being completely honest about your mental health and how it happened?

2 (3m 11s):
Well, in my honest opinion, I feel like they had some guilt because I'm, I'm adopted by my grandparents, sisters. So like my great aunt. And I went through a lot of crap before that from my biological mother when I was little. And so there was a lot of trauma there and they always said, oh, you, you don't need therapy or anything because you're fine. Now we've raised you. Well, like you shouldn't have any trauma, things like that.

2 (3m 52s):
It's just not how it works. But they, I really think that they would just feel bad if they just didn't want to face like how bad things were.

1 (4m 5s):
Yeah. It was understandable.

2 (4m 7s):
Yeah.

1 (4m 8s):
You know, I mean, like with Schizoaffective with it, it's kind of like a hybrid hybridization of bipolar and schizophrenia know these kinds of psychotic conditions are still very much misunderstood and they still, you know, if you, if, if you tell someone you can get varying degrees of reactions. So it's, it's such a strange one because it's just, at the end of the day, it's a medical condition. It's not, it's not a criminal record or something. Do you know what I mean? It's not. So, yeah.

2 (4m 48s):
Yeah. I think that they've all, they were also probably a bit afraid of the system. Like maybe if, maybe if I said something that was too bad than that, that the system might take me away or something. And that happened before I have inherited schizophrenia from my biological mother and it started with my biological grandfather. So when I was growing up, my adoptive parents, whenever I started acting out or was really upset, they would say, oh, you're going to end up like your mother or you're going crazy.

2 (5m 32s):
Like your mother, you better stop that, that, that was really not appropriate. But there was just a lot of ignorance there.

1 (5m 42s):
Yeah. I can. I remember when I was younger, my parents had say, if I was acting a bit, as they would say out of control, they would say, have you taken your medication? It's kind of like to shut me down and say, you know, there's something wrong with you. Take your medication and it will be okay. Do you know what I mean?

2 (6m 3s):
Well, that's ironic because whenever. Yeah, because, well, I just find that ironic because, well, I suppose every one, everyone who has a like, misconceptions about it might take it differently, but whenever, okay. Before I was medicated, they would say, you're going crazy. Like your mother. And after I was medicated, they would say, it's that medication doing that? You need to stop taking that medication or get a different medication that, I mean, they wouldn't know it's not their business, but I don't know.

2 (6m 44s):
I, I, I can't really blame them too much either because they were just, they just didn't know. You know? I don't know.

1 (6m 51s):
I, I think, you know, I've yeah. I think, I think at the end of the day, we come to a place of understanding and acceptance rather than, rather than judgment because, you know, I think this, this is quite not so common, but you know, the stigma so bad, and this is what happens, you know, to even the normal people on the street, they don't really understand the medication or the condition or anything or anything really deep about it. Quite easy for them to be flippant and to trivialize it when, when that's the one course of action, I think,

2 (7m 39s):
Yeah. Well, I thought maybe they thought if they could scare me or something, they could scare me away from ever developing. But as you probably know, it tends to rear its head when you are early twenties. So I was more depressed than anything. And part of that was due to the trauma of my early childhood. So I thought it was just that, but when I got older, like when I got out of high school and I started going to college, these huge changes in the status quo, I suppose, were very stressful, I guess like on the outside I felt like I was fine, but I guess on the inside, having those huge changes near right in your life, really mess with you.

2 (8m 44s):
That's when the first signs started to show I, one thing that's hard to talk about is that I believe that the internet caused like played a huge role in everything that's happened. You're you're not supposed to, you kind of get a feeling that you're not supposed to talk about that because people think you're a, they say like, you're a loser. If you let the internet affect you, like, you're just not supposed to care. And I don't know, that's just not how it works, I guess.

2 (9m 28s):
Yeah, I suppose it is. So when I was a senior in high school, that's the last year of high school I was getting you, I dunno, things were changing. And I just saw this random guy on tumbler. And for some reason, something just clicked and I became completely obsessed with him. And I, a part of me saw it as kind of weird. So I didn't, I didn't typically go like too far with it.

2 (10m 12s):
I mean, in a way, but at the same time, I didn't, I don't know. It, it, it didn't quite process to me that I didn't know him as well as I thought I did. So I believe that this was some kind of IRADO mania is when you have like really excessive, like infatuations crushes attachments, and you may be under the delusion that the other person feels at least somewhat the same way about you.

2 (10m 52s):
Like I thought we were friends, but we weren't. And he was one, one day I sent him like more of my like deeper feelings and stuff. And he was like, oh boy, we're doing this again. Listen, my friends and I have been concerned because you are acting very strangely and you were fine for a while, but you're doing this again. And something needs to change. And that just, oh man, I have never felt so guilty in my entire life.

2 (11m 35s):
I felt so awful. I just said, okay, I know what I need to do. And I just deleted my account. And the next day I went with my great grandmother to the grocery store and I felt like I was going to throw up, like my entire being just felt completely ill. So it has this sort of, what's the, what's the word? Kind of a psycho physical, Yeah, psychosomatic sort of thing to it.

2 (12m 20s):
When I got into college after a little, after like a year or two, it happened again and I was freaking out because I didn't want to, you know, I didn't want that whole thing to happen again. I didn't want to, well, I, I talked about it with my therapists and they said, well, you show some symptoms of autism. Like you may just be misinterpreting people's social signals and all that. And I just doubted it because I knew that, well, one thing that I forgot to mention was that when I just developed this infatuation with this random person online, when I was a senior in high school, was we, I, I went to a church camp that summer in, I believe it was North Carolina and we went hiking and all that stuff, but it was completely unwelcome, but I just kept my mind, just kept looping back to this person.

2 (13m 33s):
I'd see something. And I'd be like, oh, they would like that. I mean, it just, I mean, for lack of a better term, it just drove me crazy. I was like, okay, I've got to stop thinking about this because this is going to color my entire memory and experience of this for the rest of my life. I know that when I look back on this, I'm just going to remember this person, how I was thinking about them the whole time and I'd have to stop this. And I just didn't know how, and I, I really couldn't. There was nothing that I could do.

1 (14m 6s):
Yeah.

2 (14m 9s):
I don't know that that's been hard to talk about because again, a lot of therapists just don't understand and they think that it's me missing social cues, but I just know that's not true.

1 (14m 23s):
You know, I think when you get into early adulthood with some come sometimes have these strange feelings, which we can't explain. And I think that's nearly a part of, you know, that we get made. There could be powerful feelings. You know, I had this, I had, I got, when I was in my early twenties, I had powerful feelings which were inappropriate properly, which got into trouble. And, you know, I think looking back, I think that's just part of, for some folks that's part of just growing up with dope. We go through a phase where we have strong emotions and be, you know, be calm.

1 (15m 7s):
We're not old enough to handle it. You know? So I, I think, yeah,

2 (15m 19s):
Well, so after I got into college, it happened again and I was freaking out, cause I didn't want to start having these like false beliefs. And so I got to know the person and I was in a discord server with this person for like two years. And he was honestly really toxic. There were a lot of people before that who were saying that he was, and I didn't believe it because when you're a master manipulator, you kind of spin everything in a certain way. And that's pretty much what he was so cut to the future.

2 (16m 4s):
I guess he gets a girlfriend and I was like, shit, I can't get rid of this absolute obsession. That's just driving me insane. And I it's like, well now he's got a girlfriend. I was just about to tell him that I had a crush on him. And because it was the last thing that I hadn't tried to an end to this and being a complete asshole that he was, he just had to see it in a way that I was like trying to ruin his relationship and blah, blah, blah. But I mean, despite all the, despite all the disdain he had for people, he would always come to them for like help and emotional support.

2 (16m 56s):
And it was just constantly like on unstable. And my current therapist says it really shows signs of a borderline personality disorder or narcissistic personality disorder, but he always chalked it up to autism. Like everything was autism. That that's one of the issues I find these days is that people find out that they have one thing. And then whenever they have any kind of personality, quirk or anything like that, they kind of chalk it up to that thing. It's all becoming confusing. But anyway, that, that part of the story, although people may disagree with me that it was unusual or just not healthy, although people may disagree with me on that.

2 (17m 45s):
It was still pretty important to mention, because that was a huge factor too. What would put me in a hospital later? Because one thing that he would do is like, I followed him on Twitter and he didn't follow me back, but I knew that some tea, okay. Whenever we had these conversations in discord, he would, he would kind of sub tweet about like things that we were just talking about and like anything that he didn't want to tell me directly.

2 (18m 27s):
Cause it would hurt my feelings, I guess he would just put it out in public so that I could still see it. And I just, it may be mad when he did that, but I just didn't say anything I really should have. I should have been like, Hey, douchebag, shut up. Anyway. So that was just a disaster waiting to happen with schizophrenia because he would, I swear he was also looking at my Twitter account sometimes. So that would start paranoid thoughts where I'd be like God to see watching my tweets right now. Is he looking at me right now?

2 (19m 8s):
That's and because I would eventually just be like, screw you. I can't. I just, I, I don't know. He D he, I won't get into details cause it's a long story, but he really pissed me off. And so I just didn't want, I kind of saw him for what he was at that point and I just cut it off. And I was just ever since then, I was thinking, God, is he watching my Twitter account right now? Because he's really paranoid. He would, he would treat people like absolute dog shit. And then when they, then when they retaliated in any way, he, he would play the victim or genuinely think he was the victim and he would be paranoid about what they would do to him.

2 (19m 60s):
And so he would keep tabs on them and like watch them and make sure that he, that they weren't about to do something that would hurt his reputation, which is absolutely messed up. So the, the paranoid thoughts that I w I was talking to my therapist about it, and she said, she said, you know, I was surprised that your schizophrenia, that the, I, she said, I won't diagnose you with schizophrenia. But the fact that those mental hospitals, you went to diagnose you with, that was really surprising to me because you always seem like a grounded person.

2 (20m 46s):
And I was like, what do you by that? And she said, because the first symptom of schizophrenia is typically paranoia and you always seem grounded. And I was just kind of shocked by that, but in the back of my mind, like, I couldn't articulate it at the time, but what I was thinking was like, what, what your personality is, has nothing to do with whether you have schizophrenia or not, that that's just even therapists. Like most of them don't know. They're really ignorant. It's like saying, it's like saying, man, I don't know how you got diabetes when you always eat so healthy.

2 (21m 31s):
And it's like,

1 (21m 33s):
You know, it's like, I feel like a lot of them, you know, if you're, if you're wearing terrible clothes, if you're unshaven, if you're unwashed, then that's okay. But if you have a good image, a good presentation of yourself, they will doubt it because you're doing too well. You know, it's just, it's a very shallow, it's a very shallow image of someone with schizophrenia because in the, today in today's world, you know, a lot of us can just look completely normal. Yeah. So carry on.

2 (22m 13s):
It's like, what, what do you expect us to look like? The mad scientist, Einstein hairs that way, but then Easter. Okay. I was in a, I was in a toxic, I just keep getting into toxic relationships because of my upbringing. I mean, there, there's a lot of generational trauma in my family of like, I don't know, abusive husbands, bad relationships, a lot of divorces. So I was within a toxic relationship with my girlfriend at the time.

2 (22m 58s):
And I didn't, I mean, of course, if you saw it as toxic, you would probably break it off. But I mean, I always made excuses and that really stressed me out. So I had the stress of this guy potentially watching me and then that relationship, and then also being in college and dealing with all that. But also I'm transgender. I transgender male. And I started, I had a really hard time getting the treatment that I needed.

2 (23m 45s):
I, and also, you know, being trans in Kentucky, I mean,

1 (23m 53s):
Is that, is that like non binary or is it different to that?

2 (23m 57s):
Well, non-binary is well non-binary is a certain type of trans person, but some non-binary people choose not to identify with that for whatever reason, but I would be a binary trans person of female to male. So Kentucky is, as you probably know, are really conservative, like red state. And it it's extremely stressful to be trans in a red state, but also, although the voting districts tend to be very gerrymandered and the system is really weighted in a red favor.

2 (24m 54s):
The place is actually what we were right between the north and south and the civil war. And we kind of flip flop sides. So we have a long history of being very split politically and being it's absolutely messed up and unfair to just be who you are. And just because of who you are, you are in the middle of an enormous, like political debate and basically moral panic across the entire country, but especially in a place where it's really politically split and every you just, whether you want to, or not, you're hearing people's opinions about it and about you and it's, I don't know, it's just absolutely inhumane if you ask me.

2 (25m 50s):
But so the stress of that was also on me. And,

1 (25m 56s):
You know, I mean, when I think about it, are you vulnerable to aggression from folk? Who is it or is it just gossip? I mean, what, what, how, how bad is it?

2 (26m 9s):
Well, I mean, I've only ever been physically threatened once, but once it's too much, so yeah. It's mostly social and people talking about you, like, you're a hypothetical, like you're not even there and you're right there. And then they just, they just care about being correct in a political debate. And they don't, they often only care to pretend about whether you're a human being, not, but they don't actually care. They just want to be right. Well, anyway, and then Easter of 20, 21 Easter of 2021, my cat passed away and it was, he was collateral damage of COVID and COVID was also another stressor that everyone was going through.

2 (27m 21s):
He got this lump on his neck and because of COVID the vet, the vets were only taking emergency cases. And so we just had to wait and wait. And by the time that we finally were able to get him some help, he was just beyond the point of return. And he, I was helping to take care of him. And well, another thing that my therapist doesn't want to diagnose me with, but both mental hospitals that I had was autism.

2 (28m 5s):
And part of autism is that you tend to be really attached to your pets and they're like your coping mechanism. And I just, I adored him. He was everything to me. And that was just the thing that

1 (28m 27s):
Emotional trauma.

2 (28m 28s):
Yeah. So he, he really suffered and he stopped eating. And cause I guess it was hard. It was painful for him to swallow. So he starved to death essentially, and it was terrible to watch. And the day after that we had friends and family come over to the house and basically hold a funeral for the cat. And I don't know that that might seem strange because I've seen some, I saw a video on YouTube once talking about schizophrenia.

2 (29m 15s):
And it said that psychosis is triggered by stress. And it, it has to be, it typically has to be an extreme stress, like maybe a family member dying, but not a pet and that, oh man, just the irony of hearing that it has to be worse than a pet, but I know that a pet was bad enough for me.

1 (29m 40s):
I'm not, from what you've told me, you've listed a series of events. So, you know, you've gone through a traumatic events or living you're living through it. You're choosing to live a life, which is which, which, which, which makes you vulnerable. So, you know, I don't know if we know what causes schizophrenia, but I think there are triggers. And maybe I was thinking that the other day that maybe it's always sponsored to a world that we reject, you know, worlds where we reject we and we kind of trigger ourselves.

1 (30m 26s):
Yeah.

2 (30m 27s):
Yeah. I mean, so we were at the funeral and I don't know, my friends and family were trying to, you know, same, more uplifting things. And just over time I just started, man. I can't remember where it started, but my brother, he, I just remember that my brother had to go help out. Our cousin and our cousin has been very responsible for his grandmother and taking care of her.

2 (31m 14s):
And the, the first delusion I remember occurring to me was like, oh no, we have to tell, we have to tell my brother to get back home because he's a, he and our cousin are under a lot of stress. And if we don't bring him home, he's going to do something dangerous or stupid that he was going to regret. And so when he got home, I felt really relieved, but I also felt like the tension of the grief and all of that, what was going on was just too much. And he is a really, is a very, very emotional person.

2 (31m 57s):
So I thought I was about to be just overwhelmed with too much emotion. And so I panicked and I just walked out into my neighborhood to get away from everything. And I was just crying and I didn't even put my shoes on. I think I was in my boxer shorts or something like I wasn't even wearing pants. And a, I got this feeling that I needed to find something, anything to make me feel better. And so I just started wandering the, and I I'd feel like my head was turning somewhere.

2 (32m 46s):
And so I'd walk that way. And I was like, wow, I've got some kind of, I was thinking another delusion like, wow, I've got some kind of primal thing going on. And I'm being led by instinct to something that I need to see or something like that. And so this girl with a dog is out in her front yard and her dog comes to see me. And she asked me what's wrong. And I say, my cat passed away. And I said, I don't know if this makes any sense, but I think he did it for me. And I just started, I had this delusion that he was, he got sick because there's a lot of yelling and in the house and my, my parents and their son are just really, they argue a lot and they always have, and I thought that he was, he got sick because he absorbed all the stress of the household and it gave him some kind of cancer on his neck.

2 (34m 2s):
And,

1 (34m 4s):
You know, I think, I think pets, cats and dogs, they all kind of emotional vehicles in a way that them to react to the emotions of the owner or the yeah. The family members. So even though it's not really a scientific, it is something that you can observe, I guess.

2 (34m 34s):
Yeah. There, the thing about that is there is some logic to it. And I feel like because of that, other things started sneaking in. Like after that, I thought, oh, he wouldn't have been so stressed out. If we had let him outside, we stopped letting him outside because he was getting a, he was a stray cat before. So if he was always a domestic cat, we wouldn't have let him outside letting cats outside is a bad thing. They destroy the ecological surroundings. Like they made a lot of small animals go extinct and they get hit by cars and other things.

2 (35m 16s):
And, but anyway, I had been saying for several months before that, I feel bad for him that he can't go out anymore. We should get him a leash and walk him. And I thought that maybe if I had been more insistent on getting a leash and walking him, then he have gotten sick. And just thinking that it was all my fault somehow was just the start of adjusted an avalanche of delusions.

1 (35m 50s):
Yeah. So that's, that was kind of like the trigger Jasper.

2 (35m 59s):
Yeah.

1 (35m 60s):
Well kind of coming up to time here, but you know, we can have you back for a second upset if you want. We can complete the story.

2 (36m 11s):
Yeah. It's, it's a really long story. And it did have a lot of background information. In fact, I actually got a call from another Redditor who was like an author and he wanted to write a book about this sort of thing, but I had to give him a lot of background information and he said he would see if, if what I was talking about was what he was spreading this book about. And I, I won't go too long explaining this, but I, he never called me back. And I just feel like, well, everything that happened after that would have been really, really relevant to the book, but everything before that it's just necessary because it explains all the delusions that happened after that.

2 (37m 5s):
So it's just the long story, you know,

1 (37m 7s):
Why, why did, why don't I CA because this is a different part too. This is a part, this is the second part of your story. So why don't we try schedule something for August and have you come back and we can complete it. Let's do that because, yeah, I, I think, I think this is a, it's a good length at the moment. What I want to ask you is I'm going to play some music. I'm going to tack some music on the start on the end. So what CA what sort of drawing would you want me to, to, to add to this episode?

2 (37m 50s):
I really like all to pop. If you've ever heard of Sophie Xeon, she was a Scottish. So if you look that up, you'll find something, but that's also actually relevant to the story, but you'll find out later. So it's spelled X, E X, E O N.

1 (38m 16s):
Okay. Okay, cool. You know, actually pleasure to speak to you, Jasper. It was, I found it very calming your story. Is there, even though I, your, your, or is very calming, so that was quite nice.

2 (38m 32s):
I appreciate it.

1 (38m 36s):
So, so let me, let me sort out a second episode in August, and we can complete the solar