0 (1s):
<inaudible> hello and welcome to another episode of interview with a friend. I'm your host today? I have the pleasure of having Nicole. She is from normal Illinois. She's 50 years old and as a nurse, schizoaffective disorder with ADHD.

0 (47s):
So Nicole, welcome to the show. How are you doing today?

1 (51s):
Thank you very much for having me. I appreciate being here.

0 (54s):
Absolutely. My pleasure. So the first question it's slightly different than usual. Why wouldn't I ask you is how has your mental health today?

1 (1m 3s):
Well, the Schizoaffective stuff is really good, but the ADHD stuff has been pretty bad. Actually. I think that I've really learned a lot about ADHD and executive function disorder the past few months or a year that I had no idea. You know, it's, it's weird. Like with ADHD, you can't get anything done because you can't get anything started and then you can't finish anything when you start it and you will sit and ruminate over starting something it's really kind of a nightmare. And then you will sit for 12 hours and not do anything. So I've been struggling with that. And I didn't realize what it was until fairly recently, but I talked to doc and got a med change and I'm actually feeling a lot better with that just the past few days.

1 (1m 50s):
So I think today, today, I'm pretty good. Everything's pretty solid. So

0 (1m 56s):
That's good. That's good. You know, I mean, cause you're a similar age to me. I think when we got to our age, we kind of get used to it, you know, and it's and cope, coping skills a little bit better than when we were in our twenties and thirties.

1 (2m 12s):
You know, it's funny. I, I had read a article about as far as ADHD goes and how to deal with executive function disorder as an adult. And as I was reading through some of it talks about tricks. You do for kids, you get all their stuff together, you know, get everything you're going to need anything you might think of, get it all together, you know, and you got to organize it this way and you gotta do the time this way and you got to take your breaks this way. You know? And as I was reading through that, I'm like, well, I've always done that. Like this is not new information. Okay, I'm doing all this. Right. What's not working. So, but yeah,

0 (2m 48s):
No, the information is the kind of recycle the same old things I notice, you know? And, and you kind of think, yeah, I know about that. I know about that. It's like, it's like when folks say, Oh yeah, you've got to exercise and eat well. Yeah. We kind of know about that. You know? I mean new information, you know,

1 (3m 9s):
It's not an information, but a lot of it is like, how do I get to where I can do that? You know?

0 (3m 17s):
Okay. So I want to ask you is if you could give us a brief history of your mental health journey and how it began and that'd be great.

1 (3m 25s):
Yeah. I think I didn't get my diagnosis until I was 35. And, but previous to that, I know as a teenager, I was bipolar for sure. And I, you know, you know how it is, you get that boyfriend, who's the bad boy. And then you start medicating self-medicating with cocaine. So that always made that made everything better. But so I quit doing drugs and got pregnant and I was 16 and I had a suicide attempt because my bipolar is really bad. And I had a suicide attempt nanny. That was the first time I went to the hospital.

1 (4m 5s):
And why was in the hospital? Of course they couldn't give me any medications cause I was pregnant, but I had a psychiatrist and I did not. I was there with all kinds of kids who had drug problems and I'm like, I don't want to do the <inaudible> thing. I'm not in the mood to get drug counseling. I quit six months ago on my own with an addict in the house. I don't need this shit. We're not going to talk about this. But I had a Twitch. I had a, I had a towel and when I get nervous, I rub my nose. So I'm in this hospital full of people who know these things and a psychiatrist who knows these things in San Diego, California in like 1987, the height of cocaine.

1 (4m 47s):
And this psychiatrist looks at me and he goes, you know, every time you get in, every time you talked to me, you rubbed your nose. Like the week before, the day before a couple days before he said that, I said, well, we're just outside. And there was a bug, you know? Oh, okay. So he made me nervous. I had switched my nose or rubbed my nose. And he goes, you know, there's no bugs in here. I was like, excuse me. He said, Jay, you rubbed your nose. I'm like, fuck, they're going to keep me for weeks. I got to do drugs. I, the drug thing, I don't want to do this. And he goes, you know what? I think your problem is, I think you don't like the size of your nose.

0 (5m 22s):
I

1 (5m 22s):
Was quite comfortable with the size of my nose as a matter of fact. And I said, excuse me. He goes, yeah, I don't think you're comfortable the size of your nose. That's why you touch your nose. Are you nervous? I said, do you know what I think you're right. And by God, I made strides and leaps and bounds once released within less than a week because I was just cured. And I never wanted to see another psychiatrist again, because they're full of shit. They don't know nothing. You know? And in 2000 I got sent home from work to be, I was about 30 and my illness was bad. So I went to see a psychiatrist and they were treating me for depression and anxiety.

1 (6m 7s):
So they were jamming me full of anti-depressants, which was making me manic. And then they were jamming me full of Xanax to bring down manic. Cause they're just miss medicating. Me. And that ended with me knocking a bunch of stuff off of my fireplace and a big dramatic fashion and slitting my wrist open on a broken candle thing on a broken lamp. And I had to have real serious surgery. It took out the artery and all the tendons and the nerves, you know, I can use my hand just fine though. So this was, this was a big dramatic, it was an accident arrest, but I had baked.

1 (6m 49s):
I was in the middle of everything was not good in my life. It was a bunch of drama going on and I business big dramatic sweep across my, my fireplace top to knock everything off. And I got cut. And so I quit taking meds after that, obviously they weren't working. It's making me worse. And so five years after that, I was really depressed. And I went to the prompt care. My husband said, you need my ex-husband said, you need to go do something. There's something wrong. They'll get help. So I'm 35. I go to the prompt care and I'm crying. And I said, everything's fine. I don't know what's wrong. And prompt care doctor who I will, every time I see her, I say, Oh yeah, you're the doctor that saved my life.

1 (7m 29s):
She said, you might be bipolar. I don't want to give you anything. Here's a family doctor. See this family doctor. He gave me Zyprexa the next day. I was a different person, different person altogether. So I get a psychiatrist and I'm seeing my psychiatrist and he says, it was like, PAREXEL will make you fat. So he went to Geodon and that's been my magic bullet as far as mental health goes. But within a few months, not a year, my oldest son committed suicide. And after his suicide, around the time of his, around the time of the inquest, I was talking to the coroner and he, he said, do you want to know what I'm gonna say at the inquest and everything in my body said no.

1 (8m 19s):
And I of course said yes. And he told me no. And by the end of that, I had a complete psychotic break and believe my son was not dead. So I did not go to the hospital for that. But they put me on a, yeah, the one that starts with an R Respiradone. And I came out of that within the night. And I did eventually go to the hospital. But that break from reality was what changed my diagnosis of Schizoaffective disorder. And because I was in a cult Jehovah's witnesses, I also had delusions about demons being everywhere. And I had a lot of delusions.

1 (8m 60s):
I was pretty sick. I was, I mean, I was sick enough that it really ruined my marriage. My second marriage ended when I had a suicide attempt and it was not good. Things were in my life. I was not, I was not well for a very long time. And this was 40. I was 40. So 10 years ago was my last suicide attempt yet I'm in such a better place now I'm just bringing up.

0 (9m 24s):
Okay, fine. So, I mean, you have been for a hell of a lot by the sounds of it, I guess from leaving school till 2000, you know, things probably were okay. I don't know. It seems everything sort of started and snowballed after them. And maybe your oldest son committed suicide. Maybe that was a severe trigger for you.

1 (9m 53s):
Definitely. That was, did not see that coming.

0 (9m 57s):
Yeah. I mean, I've, I haven't had a suicide in my family, but from what I have heard about it, it can be extremely distressing when it's somebody that's close to you. I think, I think that's. Yeah. So that, that would probably be a major trigger

1 (10m 18s):
Studies on trauma and what it does to your brain. My mom died when I was 18 months old, I was born addicted to heroin and my mom died in a car accident when I was 18 months old. So I remember my first, what I consider a psychotic break. I was like four and I had a whole meltdown over this Teddy bear being real. It was not cool. So I was a real sick kid, you know, and ADHD on top of it, but I was loved and cared for and taken care of. But I think that trauma and then the trauma of my son's suicide altered some brain stuff for me. Definitely.

0 (10m 56s):
Yeah. I mean, you know, it's definitely from what I've read, they say trauma is considered to be a major factor in causing psychosis. There are other factors, but to be honest, trauma is what I recognized with myself as well. My life is different to yours, but I still feel that trauma is probably a major factor and it can cause, you know, I guess when you have a psychotic break, your mind is rejecting your reality and creating a new one, it's creating a new reality of what we can cope with, you know?

0 (11m 36s):
So that, that's what it's doing. So I can, you know, I can imagine that it's the mind it's the mind is doing this job, you know? So that is fine. So yeah, but you've got a daughter. Have you got any?

1 (11m 55s):
I have a son. Well, I have two sons. I had two sons and two daughters. My oldest son died and he was 19. My youngest son is 28 and mentally ill. And then medicated. I had to call the police in the crisis team forum the other night and he chose not to get help. So I don't know how that's going to go, but I love him very much. And I want him to get better. I sent him information, you know, and that's all I can do from, for now. My oldest daughter, she has depression, but she's well and healthy. And really we get along great. Actually my son, my youngest son, I get along great too, but he's just not talking to me right now, but we get along great.

1 (12m 42s):
But he's sick. And my youngest daughter has borderline personality disorder, some Schizoaffective stuff. Some, you know, I don't regret having my children. I would, I love my children and I am blessed to have them no matter what's happened and what they do and what they've done. But had I known I was going to pass down this illness to them. I don't know that I would've done so, but I wasn't diagnosed until after I had them all. So

2 (13m 14s):
Yeah, I think I'd know that there's like a chance you can pass down like a susceptibility. Like there's a probable, it's not, it's not clear. It's not like a genetic disorder is that, you know, it's not,

1 (13m 31s):
It's not clear cut. And I guess if it was, maybe we'd handle it differently, but it's a crap shoot, you know, but I got it from my mom. She got it from her dad. My kids got it. Three of my kids got it from both sides, their mom and their dad. So I just, you know, I don't know. I, it's hard. It's hard to think that you caused the suffering of your children through no fault of your own. You know what I mean?

2 (13m 55s):
I don't, I don't think you can fake like that, you know?

1 (13m 58s):
No, I know exactly. And that's why I try not to

2 (14m 1s):
Because you didn't do that. Did you, do you know what I mean?

1 (14m 4s):
No. That's why I said through no fault of your own. So you can't have guilt for something you didn't do, but you feel bad. Anyway. It's a complicated parent feeling. It's not logical. It just happens.

2 (14m 18s):
Okay, Nicole. So let me ask you some questions. How are you coping with life now? How's life now,

1 (14m 27s):
Life's great. Three years ago, I went through another traumatic event. Surprise. My last husband tried to murder me and I was in college at the time. I had a 4.0 grade point average and I got three F's in a row right after that. So I had to quit school, but I got it. I got my career that I want now. I, well, I'm healthy. I'm not taking a bunch of meds. You're gonna take one pill for anti-psychotic. I take one antidepressant and I take my ADT meds. I mean, there was a period of time, 10 years ago where I was on six or seven minutes, you know, just to get through the day.

1 (15m 8s):
But I'm well, I'm healthy, I'm stable. I'm working as a social worker. I work in social work and I work in a rooming house with eight schizophrenia. And I feel like, and I feel like raising kids for mentally ill and living myself with mental illness. And I took a year as a CNA in a long-term mental health care facility really has helped me to get to where I am now. I, I teach them life skills. Like I've been a mom for 30 years, you know, I've been teaching and I used to work at it. I worked as a professional cook for two years and I am a cake decorator and a Baker. And I was a CNA and I used to get your hopes witness, and I can literally talk to anybody, you know?

1 (15m 53s):
And so I'm using all these things in social work and my mental illness to identify with the residents in a way that neuro-typical people can't that work in social work. And I feel like I have a special bond with my residents. Some of them who know, cause you know, you can divulge a little bit when you're talking with someone and you're trying to empathize with them, you know, but they know enough that I know about the voices. They know that I know about the little voice in your head when you're having a psychotic break, it's actually telling you, shut the hell up. That's not real, you know, but you can't get it out.

1 (16m 35s):
You know? So they know, I understand a lot of things and I can, I can help, you know, and that's what I do. I work in a house and I made it home and I teach them life skills. I've taught someone how to use critical thinking. I've taught people how to cook for themselves. If I have one girl she won't ever, I don't think she'll get a job really out there in the world, much. She, she can, but I've been working with her in the kitchen on doing prep work. She helps me bake and I have her do prep work and I'm training her to work in a kitchen. You know, she could, she has, she would have to work with someone due to her illness.

1 (17m 16s):
She hallucinates and speaks to them. She knows they're not real because she doesn't talk to them out loud, but it's distracting and people notice. And you know, I think when she can get to a better place, I think she'd really do well with that. So I just teach them stuff, you know,

2 (17m 31s):
You know, you've got, you've got real life skills. It's like, you can't go to college, get taught college. You No, not in the book. And you know, I was reading about like in the UK, you have these peer support workers. So basically if you have a diagnosis yourself, you will current counsel or you become a friend of, of somebody else. Who's got a condition maybe they're younger and you will just help them and give them skills.

2 (18m 19s):
Yeah, it's a good job. But I th I just read somewhere that some of them, some of them can be a little bit, I think cruel, you know, because, because they've got a job and you know, there can be a bit sort of, I dunno, what's the word, but like, as acting as if yeah, well we've made it, so do you know what I mean? And I I'll tell you exactly. Which is, which is probably something that they will grow out of, but I've caught go through that phase. I dunno, but I guess that is like a danger. I w I just wrote that,

1 (18m 57s):
See that I don't think that's a phase. I think that's a problem. That's a personal Presa, personal issue. That's a serious personal issue. As far as a peer counselor, as where I would be, I would fit in that category. I make so many, you paid for it, you know, but if you are looking at yourself as anything other than an example for them, then you're doing this for the wrong reason. Your motive is bad, and you do not need to be helping other people. If your motivation is to look how much better I am than you, you've got other problems that need to be worked with personally, my opinion.

2 (19m 45s):
Yeah. So I, I was quite surprised when I read that because I work in software. I work in competing, but I was, I actually did apply for some peer support jobs last year. I think I didn't, I didn't even get an interview, you know, but I fought because I fought it. It's something I would have liked to have done is kind of close to my heart. I think it's kind of like, because you actually feel, whereas in summer, when a lot of drops, I say a lot of jobs, people doing what they're doing, but the bonus a few, I don't know how much of a difference it makes. You know, how much of a, like, just typing something on the computer or even selling in the shop.

2 (20m 32s):
You know? I mean, is it making a difference in the grand scheme of things? That's the, that's the difference, I suppose, which is important. I think, you know, because at the end of the day, that's what matters. I think when you get older, you look back and you're playing well, will the important parts of life is why you made a difference to someone. Do you help someone where you won?

1 (21m 1s):
Yeah. That's, that's the thing that matters in the end. It really does. Looking back on my life. You know, I was raised by my grandmother and we were Catholic and army focus as who she was. I know she's a witch, I'm a witch too. I know she was a witch. She was a witch. Oh, I know it. I know it in my heart and soul. She was never, Oh, but she was, and she taught me to live by what Jesus said, you ain't take care of the elderly. You take care of the orphans. You feed everybody. If you, if they don't have you give to them whatsoever, you do. To at least my brothers that you joined to me, when you, when I was naked, you clothed me.

1 (21m 45s):
You know? And I was hungry. You gave me an E I've always done that. No matter what I have done for a job, I'm doing something for someone in that capacity, whether it's literally taking care of kids, don't have family to take care of them or, or feeding old people. I quit my job because a Jehovah's witness sister moved because of her cancer into an apartment. So I quit the job I had so I could go cook for. So I'd make sure she was eating. And I had that job for two years. And then I, you know, started mental health. And my grandma taught me that you gotta take. And I announced what I do. I take care of the people who can't take care of themselves.

1 (22m 26s):
And at the end of the day, you have to do something fulfilling.

2 (22m 31s):
Exactly. If you, if you want to grow as a person and grow spiritually, that's the path, isn't it. You know what Jesus, we talking about Jesus, right? That message is, is, I dunno. I dunno what it's like in America, but in the UK, we don't hear about that side. The church, it's very, it's very kind of straight laced. The, where they were, they sing that hymns, but it doesn't talk about what he actually did 2000 years ago. What he, what he actually, you know, he was a kind person.

2 (23m 12s):
He was a rebel of his time. He, if he saw something in some people in authority, like the religious leaders, if they were sad, I think they would, you know, like if, if they, if they ignored a homeless person and go speak to a homeless person, Jesus would go, you should speak to that person that person's equal to you. And you, you know, that sort of thing. And you don't hear about it, but that's the core message. Right? And that, and that's the core message, which is timeless. It

1 (23m 46s):
Really is

2 (23m 48s):
Because, because I don't know that that's what matters today. I'm always matters because at the end of the day, we will gonna need someone in our life at some point. And you know, that that's important.

1 (24m 3s):
I think do unto others is really important. But I think a lot of people get it twisted. They're like I've been doing for people, what I want people to do for me. And they're not doing it for me. It's not what you're doing at honey. You're doing it because it's the right thing. And if everybody did it, because it was the right thing, your needs to be fulfilled too. But doesn't mean you have to stop being a good person, just keep doing the right thing. You'll get it. Someone will come into your life. You know, Karma's real.

2 (24m 30s):
I think karma because it's like, I was thinking about it recently, but if you give love to the universe, the universe will give you that love back. I'm not saying, I'll give you back. I'm not saying they will give it back. Like, you know, five o'clock this afternoon, maybe, maybe next year something good will happen. Or it just all sort of things will start to get slowly better. You know, it's kind of like, it's kind of like, you know, it's like, but I think also it's not a question of just doing, doing one thing. You've got to keep doing that and you got to speed up.

1 (25m 4s):
That's true. You have to actually be that human being. My grandma raised me like that. She was at human being. I'm that human being and, you know, for everything I've been through and all, all of it, you know, I look back and if I was raised differently by different people, in a different environment, I would be a really completely different human being. I really would be, you know, my, when I was a teenager, life was out of control and I was sick and I was angry and I was abused. I was abusing other people. It was just a nightmare. I mean know, and being where I am now in peace, you put love out to the universe.

1 (25m 48s):
Yeah. You don't know how you're going to get it back. You know, I have all of these incredibly fulfilling relationships, you know, I'm getting love from people in ways that are just, that's what I need. You know? I mean, you think you tell the universe, I want this, I want that do you're really though. I don't. You see what the universe wants to give you and work with that, you know?

2 (26m 18s):
Yeah. I, I believe that as well, you know?

1 (26m 22s):
Yeah. You do get back with you. You do get back with you.

2 (26m 26s):
I think you do. Yeah. I think you do, because I think you do. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry.

1 (26m 35s):
You can't spew negative and hate and be that kind of black hole person and expect things to go well for you that you get every good thing you get is going to turn to shit. You know, that's my ex-husband right now. He's had a whole new opportunity and everything he touched and it makes me feel good. Not because him, that's sad. It's pathetic. The whole thing is sad and pathetic with him, but it makes me feel good to know. It wasn't me. It really was him. And I've grown from this and you know, he hasn't, and that's given me a lot of closure, you know,

2 (27m 11s):
Are you, are you also spiritual as your religious or spiritual? Because I'm quite, I'm quite into that spiritual side of life. You know,

1 (27m 22s):
I practice magic.

2 (27m 23s):
Do you believe in an afterlife? And

1 (27m 26s):
I have, I died once and my son died once. And my son told me about his near death experience. And he ended up in the void. He was about six or seven. And he told me his experience. When he came out of the void, I've read enough near death experiences. I've got a pretty good hold on. What happens after you die your energy and to another dimension and there's things you can do. There's negative narrative experiences like the Gates of hell and yeah. And the void.

1 (28m 7s):
The void is one. The void is boy. The void. The void is you time. There's no time in the void. And you're alone with your thoughts in the void. And you don't know how long it's meant.

2 (28m 22s):
And

1 (28m 22s):
Then there's your life in review where you watch your life over. That can be good.

2 (28m 30s):
And you, you see, so every action in your life, like the main actions between some other person, you feel what they felt. So if you

1 (28m 40s):
You'd be watching it from the outside and seeing it outside yourself And the other thing, then there's the other heaven ones are where you see your loved ones and you go through the light and there's ones where you go into a meadow and the peace and the heaven, the more heavenly ones, which is another dimension. My, I have decided, I think the best I have decided with my ex-husband. He tortured me. He mentally tortured me. I mean, it was bad torture. I mean, he, I went through torture for four solid years that I came out of really well and he'll have a punishment.

1 (29m 23s):
I know what his greatest fear is. His greatest fear is living this life over and over and over again. He's afraid the universe expands and claps and expands and claps bangs in bangs out. And he has to do this the same way. He's doing it over and over and over and, and over. And he's very ill. And I think being alone with his thoughts would be a good place for him. So he can live his life now, eat, drink, and be Merry. And when he dies, he can sit in the void alone with his thoughts, watching his life interview until he learns, once he learns, they can move him on.

1 (30m 5s):
It's a weird, it's an in-between station, wherever we go next, isn't the place we're going. It's an in-between place before you go onto your next, whatever the hell we're supposed to do next. But Nope, he needs to go to a nice little time out. And once he learns that he can come back into society and be with the other energies. And if he doesn't learn any breaks, they can do what they want with them. But, you know, I think, I think that would be a fair and just punishment. Not forever. He know it's not forever, but not forever just until he learns, you know,

0 (30m 40s):
You know, I written a book about it's taught there's this person. So you get people in the channel from the spirit world into you, you know what Chan, you know, channeling and they can channel. Yeah. Okay. Well, hold on a second. But so now we're talking about Nazis after world war II and Sydney, when they were crossed over and they realized what they'd done, they were inconsolable and they would just impermanent suffering after the, after that death. You know? And it's, I guess that's just how it is, you know, but also I think what, if you live this life thinking that's the end, this is all that is, that's no life, you can't live a life like that because that's fair as ignorance, you know, you know, the people that get so afraid and they, they don't hoard everything.

0 (31m 39s):
And because they think that's it, right?

1 (31m 43s):
I mean, I think there's people who can live thinking, this is it. And they put all their energy into living their best life now and being the person they need to be. Now, a lot of people turn around selfishly and do stupid shit with it. I think it was a lot of people who try to live their best life because they don't believe there's anything after this, you know?

0 (32m 2s):
Yeah. I guess maybe,

1 (32m 4s):
Maybe for them there isn't no, I think, I think the afterlife is very personal. I really do. And GAF life is very personal and I believe if you believe something's about this giant DMT burst in your brain and you think you're in forever, but it's just your brain Diane or whatever that means you have to have your thought of what your afterlife needs to be in your head already for the moment of death and your DMT trip. You get the athlete if you want, you know, so scientifically if that's what happens, you can have whatever you want and whatever you truly in your heart of hearts believe because that's in the deepest parts of your brain that are now being exploited by chemicals that are making things real.

1 (32m 50s):
So, and the Bible and religions teach that you need to make paradise or heaven or whatever real to you. And I think that's why I think if you want to look at it scientifically, you need to make your heaven or hell real to you in the back of your mind, because that's what you're going to get. And those last few moments, if that's what it is scientifically, I don't know though.

0 (33m 14s):
Yeah. My belief is different than I actually am. I believe the spirit world in a sense is more real than this world because this world, you know, like what we see in television and the movies and what happens in real life is different. You know, people are weird. Right? Okay. Yeah. So what I was saying is, you know, I don't think this world, this world is kind of fake, you know, because a lot of people they're just full of shit and they don't go through report. They mean, you know, so whereas in some ways the spirit world is more real because people are genuine.

0 (33m 54s):
You know, the spirits are genuine. Their spirits are who they do. You know what I mean?

1 (33m 59s):
I completely agree with you. I, I can channel, I've talked to dead people. I've had very strange experiences with that. And I know I'm not crazy because other people have told me I'm telling the truth. Otherwise I would think I'd look for half the shit that's happening. I'm like, am I crazy? No, that's really happening. Okay. Just checking, you're going through that too. But you know, like with the spirits and stuff, yeah. You're real there because your energy, there's no pretenses. And I hadn't really thought about it this way until you brought it up. But yeah, you're real there. There's no pretenses. This is who you really are at that point for essence, you know, and I do believe that there's something on the other side and then I do leave you go on, I've talked to them.

1 (34m 45s):
I have friends who see them, you know, I know their real life. I can sense them. It's sweet.

0 (34m 55s):
It's like, it's what you feel. It's like, it's what you feel inside you. When you feel hanging inside, you can tell if that's true or false, right. You can tell, right. It's just like a feeling, you know, it's like, and when you go through these mental health conditions, psychosis, you know, you, you're relying on your feeling to tell you what's real and what the hell is going on. Everything else is out the window, you know? So you've got to rely on your failure. And I, I also feel that I can, I can communicate with that. People, basically my family, like my parents and stuff, but I, I, I can inkling, you know, I don't, I just a feeling, you know, it's like when I went to hospital to get my vaccine job, I had the freedom.

0 (35m 42s):
My dad came with me there and he said, Oh, it's so cold head to the spirit world where it's like some moon, like love and stuff in the, in the hospital. And it's bloody freezing because people are just, you know, in Schiller. And yeah, it's interesting.

1 (36m 4s):
It really is the spiritual fascinates me. And I want to, I want to, I don't know. I did. I, I had a severe asthma attacks and they life flighted me to a major hospital and into, they intubated me in LifeFlight and a major hospital. Apparently I died in the helicopter and I have a vague memory of the inside of a helicopter cockpit and have someone in white being over the top of somebody else. And I was standing off from the back of it. I'm like, Oh, that was the nurse doing CPR on me in the helicopter.

0 (36m 41s):
Yeah.

1 (36m 44s):
But I don't have any kind of anything after that. I think it was just the outside myself kind of feeling. But immediately after that, I wanted to contact your home's witnesses and joined the call. And plenty of people do that actually die. They become religious. So, but I'm spiritual now. And I, I think, I dunno. I just, yeah. I just feel like I've definitely a better grasp on what happens just from experience and what I've read and what I know personally, to be true rather than what it says in some ancient manuscript written by men.

0 (37m 18s):
Yes. Yeah. It's hard to model and all. And also what annoys me is that, why would you waste your life? Just spreading bullshit. Right. You know, if you're going to live on life on earth, what is the point? You know, people on the wheel. And so many people are not well. Right. And then

1 (37m 37s):
What I have found, nobody, I am real. I'm very real. I don't have a choice. I, I don't have any other way to be. And people do not understand me.

0 (37m 53s):
Yeah.

1 (37m 54s):
People have the hardest grasp on, they don't get it. They don't get where I'm coming from. They don't understand who I am as a person. And if you just listen for a little bit, it's pretty easy to get who I am. I'm direct I'm to the point. I don't have time for games. I'm not warm. I'm not soft. I'm not buzzy. I'm nice. But you know, I can't, and people do not know how to handle down to earth people. You know? I don't know if it's because they're fake and they think I'm going to see through them, or if they just don't know what the hell to do with all this happening in front of them. I don't know.

0 (38m 35s):
Okay. Nicole, I think, you know, we've, we've gone quite long today, but it was, it was fascinating to talk about, you know, spirituality as well as mental health, you know? Cause they go hand in hand. I was also going to say, you know, sometimes I reckon that you've got a sense of humor because when it loads a ship, things happen in your life, you've just got a smile about it. You know, you can do before you can do, right. Yeah. That's all you can do.

1 (39m 8s):
Smiling. Carry on fun, dark humor. Look, if it wasn't for dark humor, I'd be in a box

0 (39m 16s):
Because when all this shit happens, you think, okay, so what the hell else is going to happen? Sort of thing.

1 (39m 21s):
I am. I am telling you, I am right in the middle of a whole situation of what the hell next is going to have.

0 (39m 30s):
Oh,

1 (39m 31s):
That happened. What's next. Oh, that's great. Well, let's find the humor there. That's great.

0 (39m 36s):
I think that's a good, because a similar thing in my life, but I think that is a good gauge to know that you're on the right path, you know, because cause, cause, cause that's, cause it's hard. Right? I think that's, that's the way, you know. Okay. Well I got two more questions. The final question is, is there anything you want to talk about that we haven't discussed so far?

1 (39m 60s):
Just really for anybody who's struggling, keep going, keep trying, keep going to therapy, therapy yourself, do your own thing your way, but work through it. You know, if you can use a voice, your advantage. I use voices to my advantage, to work through my bullshit. You know, I'll come home at night, sit alone in my house and have entire conversations, you know, just to work through my own bullshit with myself because I'm the only to listen to anyway, but you can get better. Life can get better. I was on disability for 12 years and I've had a job for after my son's suicide. I was on disability for 12 years and I had a job for two and a half years long.

1 (40m 42s):
So I have a job, you know, I took a shower and brush my teeth two days in a row. You can do it.

0 (40m 51s):
Yeah. I think you can, you know,

1 (40m 54s):
The success isn't going to be the same, but you can, you can get something be happy.

0 (41m 0s):
Yeah. I think, yeah. That's a good message. And that's a similar message to Y Y like to project as well. And I think, I think, you know, there's, there's something to say about positive role models in mental health, because we do lack that in making a serious mental health, like psychosis, we do like those positive role models and that's so important. Okay. And the final question is, could you just tell me what kind of music do you like? Because I, I played music. Have you the shirt? What kind of music do I like?

0 (41m 42s):
I don't have, you know what, anything my go-to is Stevie Nicks and Fleetwood Mac. The white witch eighties. Yeah. <inaudible> talk to you too. Thank you so much for your time. Hope everything goes well. And for you I'm fearlessness.

0 (42m 25s):
When I listen to this, I'm sure it'll be. I just want to thank you very much. Thank you.

0 (42m 39s):
<inaudible>.