1 (40s):
And today I have the great pleasure of having Paul from Wister share in England. He is 25 years old and he has a schizoaffective diagnosis. So welcome Paul to the show how you did today.

2 (56s):
Hi. Yeah, I'm okay. Just, just, just so many just working up to be honest.

1 (1m 3s):
Yeah. I mean, that's kind of a, it's kind of part, a course for people on oxycodone medication is to, we need our sleep, I guess.

2 (1m 14s):
Yeah. I am a fan of a lot of problems with the medication and sleeping and sleeping too much, but okay.

1 (1m 24s):
I mean, it's a, it's a real problem because I have that as well. And lots of people have on psychotics have the same issue with sleeping because yeah, I mean, I guess that's all I can say is that the longer you take them kind of gets easier, but it's still that I suppose.

2 (1m 51s):
Yeah. Yeah, definitely. I think the problem before in the past Filene has been, I've had sort of the anti-psychotic causing asleep and then some of the other medications I take for the condition has just made it. So I've just sleep slept like I'm up to 16 hours a day sometimes.

1 (2m 11s):
Yeah. Yeah. I, I do a call back around 2012 when I took some time when I left my job and I took some time out to recover. I'd go to bed at midnight or I guess probably like 10 o'clock in 10, 10:00 PM. And I would hope to get up at like nine o'clock in the morning, but I would regularly sleep priests or often mid Bay. And there was, there was nothing I could do about it. It was just all so tired, you know, it's just,

2 (2m 45s):
Yeah. The other thing is you can do about it. Yeah. I do find it that it's very difficult to force yourself to get up when you're in that sort of state. Yeah. Okay. Then what Paul, why don't you

1 (3m 0s):
Tell us about how your mental health journey began you're twenty-five years old. So tell us, give us a brief history of, of the events leading up to the diagnosis and, and what happened.

2 (3m 15s):
So I had my first Episode when I was 19, I watched doing a lot of drugs at the time and I was just getting mentally unwell. And then I ended up going to the doctor after being pushed by some friends and family, and then they talk nice to me, we've having a psychosis. And then, so I was sort of having an Episode for about a year after that and until the medication and stopping, doing as much drugs as I was doing before. And so it took effect.

2 (3m 56s):
And then I had another Episode when I was 22, again, because I'd started doing drugs and drinking again, and I ended up going to a hospital and I was in there for seven months. And then that was when they diagnosed me with Schizoaffective.

1 (4m 20s):
I mean, so you were taking drugs, was it, was it just, it was just recreational in what you weren't addicted? It was, I mean, tell us about that.

2 (4m 30s):
Well, I used to smoke cannabis every day. I know a lot of people say it's not addictive, but I personally do think it's addictive, even if it's just a mental addiction, but I was also doing a number of hallucinogens. I was taking coding regularly. My job did feel addicted to, and I was also drinking fairly heavily.

1 (5m 3s):
Yeah. I mean, I guess around that age, 18 to early twenties, people did experiment, you know, all when I was younger, all I did was cannabis. I know it's a psychoactive by guests and there is a space to be a link between cannabis and psychosis. But yeah. Yeah, man. I mean, yeah. I think when you're young, you want to enjoy yourself. Right. So I guess, so you do these sorts of things, but do you think, do you think it was like a major causal effects of your psychosis?

2 (5m 41s):
I really, Dave, I don't necessarily think it is the same for everyone, but I don't do any drugs now. And I did smoke in Amsterdam this year and I felt sort of the effects of feeling a bit like I, in a psychosis when I did smoke. So I do sort of attribute a lot of the, the severity of the psychosis down to the drugs.

1 (6m 8s):
You know, I went to Amsterdam myself last year and a half. I don't know if you have as well, but I had a space muffin and I can't remember the THC content, but it was pretty high. And I just, I went to McDonald's and ate the space muffin, and then I thought I'll just walk around and sit a dime. And I just had, I was out of it. I was completely out of it. And I also experienced psychosis, like symptoms as a losing, losing touch with reality. But it was, it was something I hadn't felt for about 10, 15 years. It was like an old psychosis resurfacing, which is, which is kind of interesting.

1 (6m 54s):
It was, yeah, it's strange. But I dunno if cannabis is like a healing drug or something, but I don't know that I definitely did feel the psychosis and, and yeah, it was kind of scary. I think I had a sound or a pair on a sandbox sat next to a wall by a canal until it wore off a little bit, but yeah. Okay. So, so what sort of tell us about what you're doing now? Are you in recovery? Are you working on your recovery at the moment?

2 (7m 33s):
I'd say I'm still trying to recover, but I'm doing a master's degree. I don't know. I have a part-time job.

1 (7m 42s):
Okay, cool. What's your master's degree in

2 (7m 45s):
Engineering management.

1 (7m 47s):
Ah, cool. What was your bachelor's? Ah, I just kept engineering as well. I really, yeah, I did. I did. I graduated in 1997 by the conference. Yeah. It's a tough course. It can lead anybody to psychosis that course. So what, so what, that's great, man. Yeah. So, you know, with a bachelor's and that master's, you can do a lot and that, you know, you can, you can do a lot with your life. I think so. I mean, I took seven years when I took a claim sickness benefits because I just couldn't do anything, you know, and, and whatnot.

1 (8m 36s):
And we forget it to a, what's called a recovery college and, and the speakers, they all had mental health problems, but I all recovered to the point that they could become work. They could become recovery workers put in a recovery college and it was really, and, and some people take a long time. Some people take years out to recover, you know, there's no set time how long it takes, you know? So yeah, it takes, it takes some, you just got to give yourself time and wait until you feel strong enough.

1 (9m 16s):
And also the more time you get out and you kind of feel hungry and trying to think, yeah, I really want to get back into it and do something.

2 (9m 25s):
Yeah. I, I, I took sort of after leaving hospital, it was during my degree that I went into hospital. So the university had given me, they let me take the second half of the year and after I'd sort of dropped out the second half of the final year, they, they let me retake it and I finished it. And then I just took sort of two or three years to sort of get, get back into a state where I felt ready to work or study properly. So it's nice to see.

1 (10m 3s):
And how are you feeling? So how are you feeling now? What is, what is your mental state at the moment? I mean, T tell us about that.

2 (10m 15s):
I'm generally okay. With the medication. Sometimes I think recently I had to get my medication increased cause I wasn't feeling so, and I was sort of experiencing mild symptoms, but since it's been increased, I've been a lot, a lot better, to be honest.

1 (10m 36s):
Okay, cool. Yeah. I mean, no medication, it, it does take the edge off. I mean, do you employ other sort of strategies? You know, do you, 'cause a lot of people like to experiment with art or, or have hobbies, you know, to, I think it really helps, you know, to have a therapeutic approach of when you can do something that will see your mind. Have, have you looked into that?

2 (11m 8s):
I haven't looked into that in particular, but I'm supposed to be seeing a psychologist sometime soon to sort of manage my symptoms better.

1 (11m 20s):
Okay, cool. So tell, let me, I've got a list of questions. So I'll just, I'll just put you in like give you a mastermind moment, I guess. How did your friends react for your mental health journey?

2 (11m 40s):
Most of the reactions are very positive and supporting some people. Most of my friends were very supportive and positive to me, but a couple of them weren't able to that very close friends. Weren't able to sort of support me for their own mental health, but we're friends now. I'm a better, if that makes any sense.

1 (12m 11s):
Yeah. Yeah, it does. And, and how did your family react to your, maybe not as your immediate family, but your extended family? How did they react?

2 (12m 24s):
I haven't really told my extended family, but my immediate family who've been sort of gave me the whole way. I, my parents visited me multiple times a week when I was in the hospital and I live with them now because they support me through like my day to day stuff.

1 (12m 46s):
Mm. Okay. Do you, what are your, are you experienced any psychotic symptoms at the moment? That is, I mean, do you experience, are you, are you go through some intense delusions or hallucinations or is it, Oh, is it pretty much calmed down due to the meds?

2 (13m 13s):
I do experience some sort of experience, a lot of paranoia and I'm a mum, my main problems with my mood and I, and I know I've struggled with my major a lot, but I, I do experience a lot of paranoia and, and sometimes I get hallucinations, which involves sort of spiders and bugs sort of crawling around, along and over me when there's nothing there when I can see them, if that makes any sense.

1 (13m 47s):
Yeah. I've heard people talk about that. I've heard people talk about that. Okay. What else is it a while I would ask you, what do you believe schizophrenia, Schizoaffective, w w you know, psychotic disorders, what do you believe they are?

2 (14m 14s):
I kind of, in my opinion, a lot of the psychotic disorders are caused by sort of different, different reactions in the brain, to the chemicals in the brain. I think I've read that one of the common theories around schizophrenia is something to do with the dopamine receptor or something like that. And it's a problem

1 (14m 44s):
Textbook. That's a textbook on supple, but if that was correct, the medications would cure us. You know what I mean? And they don't, they're not a full cure. I'm just, I'm just, what I'm trying to say is I'm just trying to lead you so that you can think perhaps what could it be? You know, what is actually going on here? Have you, have you experienced any synchronicities?

2 (15m 19s):
W what does that mean?

1 (15m 21s):
So synchronicity is like a, if you're thinking about, you could be thinking, thinking about, say Duncan, and then just when you're thinking about it, my, I sent you an email and the exact same time that's is that what's in Christie's, it's like a, it's not a coincidence, but it's, it's so ridiculously accurate. It's just, it can, it can, it can settle you. And I kind of, I mean, for me that it happened, it happened occasionally, not like everyday, more like once every three to four months.

1 (16m 9s):
So that's something that you might experience.

2 (16m 15s):
Yeah. I used to be, it used to be with people posting on Instagram and music videos that I used to see a lot to feel would very much relate to something that I was currently going through on really specifically, if that makes any sense or feel like, I feel like if I, if I was I'd feel like I'd get advice from some random Instagram posts from celebrities sometimes.

1 (16m 52s):
Oh, yeah. That, that is, that's definitely a classic psychosis. And Paul have you ever been in a hospital?

2 (17m 3s):
Yeah, I was in hospital for seven months.

1 (17m 6s):
Oh, really? So what was your experience like in a hospital?

2 (17m 13s):
I have a few friends from hospital that I'm so, still speak to, and I'm glad to be friends with them, but I, in general, I don't have been in hospital and I feel like I was worse in hospital because of the atmosphere and not being able to leave. It felt a bit like a prison because I wasn't allowed to leave or at all for a long time. And then when I was allowed to leave, it was only a short amount of time.

1 (17m 47s):
You know, they, the hospital, mental health wards have changed quite significantly in the last 20 years from when I was in inpatient and to what they are like now, because yeah, you say prison because when I visited a mental health ward last year, and it's like sick, high security is quite, is quite, and th it's a different atmosphere that as well is kind of, you kind of watched a new kind of, you know, when I went to a hospital, there was security, but it was only my one door, but the mental health ward I visited, there was a door in your room.

1 (18m 34s):
There was a dog and the ward, and there was a door on the main entrance, which is my debt hard to escape, but, you know, I mean, right,

2 (18m 45s):
Yeah. In, in my nose, sort of, and you have, you had windows on your doors so they could see in an early time, and that was straight. They wanted to really? Yeah. So when I first was there, they wanted the door to be left, open so they could see what I was doing all times. Yeah. Do you think

1 (19m 12s):
They're a bit heavy handed?

2 (19m 18s):
Yeah, I do think they're a bit is a bit too much when I first was in, I didn't know what was going on really. And no one really sat down and explained it to me and then last sort of wanting to leave. Cause I was in voluntarily initially and I sort of kicked off and then I just sort of got surrounded by like six people holding me down and they injected me and this is not really this. Yeah. So yeah, I feel like it's a bit too much and they should, they need to really rethink,

1 (19m 56s):
I think, I think, you know, I think what it's down to is it's a simply fair and because maybe they don't really understand the condition and also in a mental health ward, you have schizophrenia patients, bipolar, depressor, depressives, you know, the full gamut of mental health disorders. You know, so I guess for the orderlies, by probably a quite ignorant about the conditions that is not their job to know the medical, medical details, medical symptoms. So I guess they just want to control the situation.

2 (20m 38s):
Yeah. Okay.

1 (20m 43s):
Sorry. Sorry. Carry on.

2 (20m 45s):
Why I felt the main problem is not necessarily from the people, the, the, just the ground staff, but some, if there's a big problem with some of the doctors, they say they, they, they said to me multiple times, if I didn't stay voluntarily, they would just force me to stay for a long time. And that's what happened. I didn't want to stay voluntarily. So they just said, we'll just section in you and you have to stay for, and I stayed for like four months after that. And I feel like that's a problem with some of the doctors in there.

2 (21m 26s):
Just kind of, you know, making you sick.

1 (21m 29s):
Yo, you're at home now that's in the past, you know, are there certain things that you're doing that, are you optimistic that you won't be in a hospital again?

2 (21m 44s):
Yeah. I'm trying really trying hard not to go back there.

1 (21m 48s):
Yeah. Because I think what needs, if you go in a hospital, you'd have to have a psychotic break and do something strange. And then, then they would probably put you in the back in a hospital. I get put a wall. I want to ask you another question. Have you had any breakthroughs that you would like to share and how did you any in your recovery or your mental health journey, have you had any breakthroughs that you can think of? Know if not, it doesn't matter.

2 (22m 20s):
The biggest breakthrough for me was really stopping smoking weed, to be honest and drink him or just that one day I just had enough and stopped completely. And now I only occasionally drink with my friends. And that

1 (22m 35s):
Was the biggest watching films.

2 (22m 38s):
No, I don't really, I don't, I, I can't pay attention for long enough. So I, I don't have any watch films or never watch a lot of YouTube.

1 (22m 50s):
Cause I was going to ask you if there is a mental health fems, but I know what it's like. Sometimes it can be difficult to ingest media because it can make you paranoid and it's sometimes just don't have interest in what they're talking about. So I can understand that. Okay. Paul I think we can wrap it up here. It was a pleasure to speak with you. Do you have a particular genre of music that you prefer?

0 (23m 38s):
Maybe I will. I'll check off from you and maybe next year, if you were to come back to the show and trying to sort bring my little babies and I get some bands and I get some bands of my little baby, my little baby, I guess a man's and I get some ideas in my little baby, my little baby. It's not <inaudible> it's going to be all yet.

0 (24m 34s):
I get some bands and I get some bands. I get some bands and I get some bands that tell it, spending it. I get some Bay. Is it? I get some <inaudible> I guess a man is my little baby. I use a man's and I guess Amanda, Amanda, baby.