0 (31s):
Hello, welcome to another episode of interview credit. They have the great pleasure of having Eric with me from United States of America. He is 32 years old and he's a diagnosis Schizoaffective bipolar type. So welcome Eric, how you doing today?

1 (51s):
I'm doing pretty good, actually. Thank you for asking.

0 (55s):
Yeah, that's great, man. So what is my first question is always the same. Eric. I want you to give us a history of your mental health journey. What were your first symptoms? How did you get diagnosed? Did you go into hospital? Did you, how were your doctors that sorta affect us to get a feel for, for yourself and how your journey began?

1 (1m 22s):
Okay. Yeah, so with me, I, I was actually first started having problems as a child. My very first diagnosis was when I was eight years old, just because every, like I had issues with my emotions, I would have these mood swings and everyone noticed, but may I, I was completely oblivious because I was under the impression, you know, this is how everyone was. I I, at that age, I really just kind of understand that I was different. So yeah, so I had problems in school and then the school got my parents involved, my parents.

1 (2m 3s):
So at that time we actually lived in Florida and Florida's kind of one of those States, like, especially in the nineties where mental health issues were not taken seriously. So my parents sort of didn't take it seriously. They actually were telling me, you know, we think of this as just your way of having an excuse to misbehave. So that kind of characterized how I viewed my mental illness up until honestly I was an adult. Like I was 25 before I actually went to get help for myself. And by that point I was experiencing hallucinations and, you know, I would, I would hear things.

1 (2m 45s):
I was actually listening to your podcast with Jen. She said she saw a shadow people and that's actually exactly what I had been seeing in my, in my adult years.

0 (2m 59s):
Fine. So

2 (3m 1s):
If I, as a child, you, you're kind of having like some sort of bipolar symptoms when you were younger. You know, man, I mean, a lot of kids do have mood swings. Absolutely. You know, that's, that's very nice. A lot of kids are quite like that, I think, but can I say fine? So maybe it was quite extreme. So you have problems in school and the mental health was not taken. Yeah. Mental health has, has kind of grown over years. The awareness of it, you know, it's kind of my, one of the reasons that I do this podcast is because schizophrenia is still in the shadows.

2 (3m 43s):
So Schizoaffective that kind of in the shadows, whereas it's kind of like the anxiety and depression, which has gotten a lot of press, which is fine, but you know, we, we, we need awareness for all the conditions, not just anxiety and depression. So then you had hallucination, these were visual hallucinations. Did you have any auditory hallucinations?

1 (4m 9s):
Yeah. And that actually is a problem that still persists. In fact, I literally yesterday I just started a new anti-psychotic the auditory hallucinations I have because I have a history with, by parents where they were very, they just like talk down to me a lot. They insulted me a lot and my mind sort of plays that on repeat. And so I get hallucinations like that, but for me, it's a really bad because like, I don't hear them. The, I hear a specific voice and it's actually someone who I was engaged to years ago and who died.

1 (4m 52s):
So it's like being haunted by this ghost set for some reason is just constantly insulting me and trying to tell me to kill myself, things like that.

2 (5m 3s):
How long has this been going on? Cool.

1 (5m 5s):
So the hallucinations started when I was, I would say 22, I believe.

2 (5m 14s):
How does it make you feel Eric?

1 (5m 17s):
Well, I just, it, it really destroys your self confidence. Like especially if the person, like, I recognize that voice, I'll never forget it. She was not just my fiance, but my best friend. So it's like, you know, if you're someone who you loved just came back to you every once in a while to tell you you're a piece of shit, you know? I mean, you just can't have self-confidence with that happening.

2 (5m 44s):
Yeah. Because I kind of want people to understand how it feels like to have these conditions, you know, did you have any other symptoms apart from the hallucinations?

1 (5m 59s):
So I, I do. I have actually something I've had since I was a kid, I've actually kind of been able to deal with it as an adult was I would have delusions that people could hear my thoughts. I, you know, I was really, eh, you know, part of that does come from, you know, like my upbringing with my parents. Like if I had a journal, I, I don't keep journals anymore because as a child, if I had a journal, they didn't like what they saw my journal they'd beat me for it. And then just sometimes people would re act towards me, certain ways that I wouldn't understand and less, you know, they could see like some of the dark thoughts that were in my head.

1 (6m 45s):
And I started to think that baby people mistreated me because they knew what I was thinking. You know, they knew that there's something going wrong with me

2 (6m 54s):
Is that delusion still possess persist. Now

1 (6m 59s):
It, it does. But it's something I've been able to cope with. I've actually developed the skills to really deal with it and understand that, you know, I do have a private internal life.

2 (7m 11s):
Okay. Fine. I mean, so tell us how, what sort of emotions go for you? When would those delusions where their worst? What, tell us how that felt like

1 (7m 23s):
I it's, you know, I feel so paranoid, you know, if you think you can't think things, you, you just, you try not, you try to just put everything out of your head. Don't think anything or, or just try and think, you know, about like happy things, like positive things, like, think about compliments about all the people around you, because they, if they can hear you, I mean, they're not going to fault you for that. Right.

2 (7m 52s):
Yeah. Sorry, carry on.

1 (7m 55s):
And just not being able to trust people, because you don't know it it's like, if you don't know, like what people know about you, I guess it's very hard to trust what they think of you.

2 (8m 9s):
Yeah. Kind of, I kind of feel that a lot of folks with these conditions just want to be honest. I don't know. They just want to tell the truth because they, they want the truth from people they talk to, you know, and, and you know, and that in a way that, that's a good thing really, because yeah. Okay. So are you your medication, right? You're an ax psychotic, so

1 (8m 37s):
Correct. I'm a anti-psychotic I had just started. And of course I'm on lithium for the mood swings to stabilize.

2 (8m 47s):
Yeah. Because you've got bipolar type Schizoaffective. So Schizoaffective, it's generally a combination of schizophrenia symptoms and bipolar symptoms. So that means you get the psychosis hallucinations and the mood swings. So I, I want to know also it's how does the medication affect you?

1 (9m 14s):
Well, this new anti-psychotic is called Rick salty one. I'm sort of noticing just like a, a very common side effect with a lot of atypical. Anti-psychotics where you get, like, you know, you get stomach aches, stomach cramps, stuff like that. It was a little harder to sleep last night. That's actually kind of why, like I wanted to get up earlier for this, but you know, it just happens that way sometimes.

2 (9m 44s):
Yeah. I wanted to ask about your sleeping patterns. Do you feel that is, how do you feel that it's affected by the medication? I mean, what, what was the reasons that you changed your medication, but was it because of the side effects or the efficacy of it?

1 (10m 2s):
It was actually both. So I was on Risperdol and I've actually posted this, but before that, how it just makes me so anxious, but it also really wasn't doing anything for me. I actually, so I, I had I've I have been hospitalized multiple times throughout my life and I basically, they gave me Risperdol and I, when I was in the hospital last year, like literally a year ago, and I just, I hated the place I was in so much, there was so much violence around me. There was so much conflict. It was, it was a scary place to be.

1 (10m 42s):
It's, it's actually a pretty notorious hospital in my area. So I'm just like, you know what Risperdol is great. I want to get out of here. Let's go. I'm cure. No voices, never heard anything. Burka let's go, you know?

2 (10m 55s):
Okay, fine. I mean, you know, I, I think also the life of someone with this condition, like you said, you've been hospitalized multiple times. It's difficult to find that stability, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. And also kind of what helps with making a person stable is a good support network and also support from the state as well. I mean, how you feel about the support that you're getting?

1 (11m 26s):
So it's, it's like a mixed bag. I have a wonderful partner who is 100% support. I couldn't ask for a better person to be with me, you know? And the, my family, I do have as supports, but they're, they have, like, there's only so much they can relate to because they kind of have a difficulty understanding, like some of the problems that I

3 (11m 54s):
Have, like, you know, if I met, like, I I've been manic for the past few weeks and I'm like, I've probably average maybe at most hour asleep at night for the past few weeks. And they, they don't like when I'm like sleeping all day, it's like, I can't sleep. I literally can't. I try, I meditate, you know, I drink camomile tea. I, you know, I wind down, I do, I do all of these, like these rituals to try and help me sleep. And it's just, the illness just does not care.

2 (12m 25s):
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's cause you know, like for me, I guess the two major side effects for any psychotics is the drowsiness and also the weight gain. Have you noticed anything about the weight gain? Is that something that has affected you?

3 (12m 47s):
So I like yes and no. Well, yeah. I I've gained a lot of weight in the past, like four years in the past four years I've gained a hundred pounds, but it's, it's hard to say that it's because of the anti-psychotics because I'm also eating a lot and drinking a lot of like soda and stuff to cope. Cause I don't really have that healthy of coping skills.

2 (13m 12s):
Okay. So Eric, what I want to ask you is do you work or how is your day-to-day life at the present?

3 (13m 22s):
Yeah, so daily I, my primary occupations are, I, I don't like work in the terms of like, I don't have a job employed with someone else currently get a disability for social security and I do other things. Like I donate plasma for money and, but I'm also, I've worked go to school full time and I take care of my daughter.

2 (13m 46s):
Okay. Fine. Yeah. Okay. Fine. So are you going to school to look for work or, or was there a reason because of the illness that you find you feel that work is difficult? Can you tell me the barriers to work for someone in your position?

3 (14m 6s):
Oh, absolutely. Cause this is something also that I think my family has a little bit of trouble understanding too is so when you don't have a degree, you pretty much working in customer service or food service jobs in my area, or you, you know, you're doing sales, but these are all things that require, you know, interacting with people a lot. And for me, like I, I can do it like when I'm stable, I'm good. Like I'm really good. I do very well in these jobs. I've worked sales for years, you know, I, cause I, I did work for most of my life, but you know, when I start to get psychotic, it's like, people don't want to go to a cash register to them talking to someone who's not there.

3 (14m 53s):
Nobody wants to talk to that person, you know, or same with sales, you know, nobody wants to go to a sales meeting to have them to have me like quietly sitting there like a scared squirrel, afraid to say anything to them.

2 (15m 6s):
And if this affected you as a person, you're kind of, you're, you're sort of retina Western sense, you think, well, you know, I've seen it, what happens before? And I just don't want to go through this again. I mean, how, tell me about,

3 (15m 23s):
Yeah, there is definite trepidation with rejoining the workforce for me, I think. And essentially this is what I find the value of school in because you know, if I'm confident in something, even if I like, even if I feel out of place or even if I feel scared, when I'm confident in my ability to do something, it's just, it's it's night and day, you know, I, I can still hold my own and not, you know, buckle, but like if I'm like, if I'm not confident in my ability to do something, like if I don't feel like it really sell to a person because I'm like out of my head, then it's just, you know, to me it feels like climbing up a mountain.

3 (16m 7s):
It's just, it's so hard for me to actually approach that situation with it, you know, saying, you know, I can do it.

2 (16m 15s):
Yeah. I think a genuine Jen genuine confidence in your ability to do a task is so important for people with mental health problems because we find it very difficult to be the fake confidence, you know, because where we just we'll just be who we are. And so I think genuine confidence in ability task is so important. Yeah. I agree with you. Yeah. Okay. Okay, Eric. Yeah. So let me ask you some more questions. I'll call this the questions here. Do you read any books? I mean, what sort of books do you like?

3 (16m 55s):
Yeah. I love books ever since I was a child. I was constantly reading. I mean, you know, right now I'm doing a lot of reading of textbooks, but you know, for leisure, I, I like, like I was really into a song of ice and fire, the, you know, the game of Thrones book series and also like,

2 (17m 19s):
Does it help you? Does it help you reading?

3 (17m 23s):
Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Anything that can distract me, you know, a good story. If it can distract me, will like it, it's very therapeutic and honestly, I, I feel it's a solid coping skill.

2 (17m 35s):
Yeah. And, and what about movies? Do you like to watch movies?

3 (17m 40s):
Yeah, so I'm really into horror movies, well horror movies and comedy. So I like that combination, you know? Yeah. So, you know, I watched those with, you know, with my partner watch with our daughter. It's, it's fun and that's again, you know, that's coping for me. That's how I keep myself safe.

2 (18m 2s):
I mean, what, what would you do? How do you feel people, people sort of understand skitzo effective schizophrenia. How do you feel people understand that, you know, just regular people?

3 (18m 23s):
Well, I mean, just from my perception of, I look at obviously social media and, you know, popular, popular media, like movies and stuff for, to kind of get an understanding of how people at large view things. And if you go look at Hollywood movies, you know, schizophrenia is kind of like, you know, people think it's like, you go to Selma, you know, adventure in your head, you know? Yeah,

2 (18m 49s):
Yeah, yeah. Everything's, everything's beautiful, you know, kind of, but a little bit scary. Yeah. I know you, me, I know you made films like sucker punch and, and shutter Island, those sorts of films, I guess. Yeah.

3 (19m 10s):
Yeah. And I like the movies, you know, I don't, I don't dislike the movies because of that, but I think like it's hard for people. Like they try to put things in a way people can relate or at least understand and that, you know, I mean, that's a problem with any type of scientific endeavor, people like pop side or the actual science, because it's easier for them to digest. Nobody can really sit there and go through the whole DSM and be like, Oh, this is what all these disorders mean. You know, they just don't have time for that.

2 (19m 44s):
I mean, these conditions are kind of lifelong, I guess that's one part of the severity of it. I mean, how, how do you feel about that? Do you, do you, I mean, cause like for me, I don't really think about it mean what is your take on that?

3 (20m 3s):
Yeah. Well, I mean, for years, like I didn't get treatment because I never thought of like myself as having a problem. So, and like, you know, w when, when you don't understand, you have a problem, like, you don't think of it as anything. Like, it doesn't even occur to you that there's an issue. So you're just like everyone else. But like when you look at it from the lens I have now, I try not to think, you know, I have a lifelong disease. I think I have lifelong habits. I need to develop because I'm always going to be in recovery.

2 (20m 38s):
Yeah. Okay. Do you feel you've experienced discrimination before?

3 (20m 52s):
Yeah, I mean, so it's in a way, but I guess, like, I don't really know what I expected people to do. And similar situations I put them, like, you know, I, I have to call out a lot when I had the call a lot when I worked a job in a, like a disc replication factory, like 10 years ago. So I got fired and I mean, that's like nowadays with the laugh Elma and FMLA and all of that, and the States, like they can't really do that. So, you know, from the lens of now that would seem like discrimination, but back then we didn't have those roles and I couldn't have expected anything else.

3 (21m 36s):
So it's, but I mean, actually, you know, probably a more poignant example is I have in school when I was a child, because there were some really kind of damaging experiences. I have like one time for awhile, the teacher, like if I started to act out, like if I was manic and like I was talking a lot, you know, very jittery, they put me in like the broom closet, because in, you know, those schools back then they had closets. They, they put you in the closet as a punishment. You have to do your work there.

2 (22m 9s):
I mean, do you think you suffer from self stigma where the stigma is, how we're brought up with the condition? Because I think this is quite a common thing where we, where we kind of like attack ourselves, you know, with our, come on, we can do this, we can do that. You know, it's all in my head. Do you pick me? You suffer from self stigma.

3 (22m 36s):
I definitely have. I, I'm not sure. I think I have a good perspective now, but growing up, you know, my parents were saying, you're only D you're only doing this to misbehave and excuse to misbehave. And like, that's what I believed. I actually believed for the longest time. There's nothing wrong with me. I'm just choosing to be bad.

2 (23m 1s):
And it's a difficult mindset to get rid of if you grew up with that, I guess, you know? Right. What about bullying? Have you been maybe as a child, possibly you were, but as an adult, have you faced adult bully?

3 (23m 19s):
You know, I C I don't like this. Think of it as, because from my background, my dad has always tried to like, tell me, you know, it doesn't matter what people say about you, if you stand up for yourself, you know? So like, if I say, you know, people have like, always like made fun of me for like, you know, I have, I have ticks and stuff like that, where I'll just get in my head and I'll be twitching and things like that. You know, people make fun of you for stuff. If you have weird little idiosyncrasies, like even people like your boss, like your manager will like bust your balls over that. So, I mean, in a way, but I don't like to think of it cause like, as blink cause you know, I, I did tell them off, like I would get mad if people got too aggressive with or, you know, so it's not like I just was a victim.

3 (24m 7s):
I did try to stand up for myself when I could.

2 (24m 11s):
Yeah. I guess, I guess what I think, I mean, you know, I'm sure you, you, you can, you're a strong person, but at the issue is, is that sometimes we are vulnerable and you know, and there's nothing we can do about it. You know, it's just, it's just, maybe it's a bad day and we're not able to portray that public face that we all have and you know, so it can be difficult sometimes I think.

3 (24m 43s):
Oh, I, I definitely agree.

2 (24m 46s):
Yeah. I mean, Eric, what would you, how would you like the public to change? How would you like to, well, to change, to acknowledge your condition?

3 (25m 1s):
Well, honestly, it's not even just like my conditioner, any mental illness. I think there's a key, a way that the world, our society needs to change and that's to just like chill the fuck out, you know, you know, like you don't have to be on someone's case. Like you don't have to like see something that like seems off to you and instantly insults someone over it just like move on. It's you, it doesn't have to be your business, you know, just stop going out of your way to make other people miserable, miserable. Like, we're all miserable because of other things in our world are, you know, we were born to a world of scarcity, things suck for a lot of people and we don't need to make it worse for each other.

2 (25m 50s):
Yeah. I think, I think there are a lot of people talk about narcissists and they cause a lot of problems. It's difficult to pigeonhole people like that. I think it's probably sort of narcissistic behavior in some folk. Do you know what I mean? It's not, I don't think anybody I saw black and white, is it, but yet there are some people who can be cruel and unkind and, and it doesn't help society. Like you say, you know?

3 (26m 21s):
Yeah. Yeah. Just, just wanted to add just in general. I, you know, just all of us, I think everyone can benefit just focusing more on improving ourselves over, bringing down others, you know?

2 (26m 39s):
Yeah. I mean, yeah, that, I mean, to me, when you say those sorts of things, I tend to think we need to be kind of more spiritual rather than, you know, material capitalistic, all this sort of thing, but more spiritual where we, where we feel sort of more compassion to our fellow man, to a fellow woman, a compassion for nature, a compassion for all living things. You know, I think I, you know, I think that's kind of, that's what I think when you talk about this, all things.

2 (27m 20s):
Right. And it's difficult because it's, it's not like religion, you know, where, where they're just trying to teach you how not to go to hell, but spirituality really about just being more compassionate to folk. I think it's important.

3 (27m 38s):
Yeah. No, I, I agree with you 100% there. Yeah. I, I definitely, I feel like, cause w when I was young, down in Florida, like, it's, there's a lot of like religion. I was kind of sucked into that because that's just what's around. And I was, I was pretty devout Christian as a kid, but I, I started to realize, I wasn't, I didn't care so much about the Christian churches. I was just extremely respectful or I had just had a lot of respect for Jesus Christ and like his philosophy. I didn't care about the old Testament. I just liked Jesus.

3 (28m 18s):
And the way he thought of how you should treat people.

2 (28m 21s):
Yeah. I w I had these comics, I think when I was in hospital this long time ago now, but it's over 15 years ago, maybe longer than that, but I had these comics of Jesus Christ his life, and that was so much more useful for me than any, any religious education lesson or any Bible, because it just, Jesus was like a really cool guy. And like, if there was like an authority figure, he would point out it was a bit like soccer. So Socrates from ancient Greece, you would point out the, what they were doing wrong. He was like, kind of like a rebel to authority, which is, which is really cool. And you don't really hear so much about it, I think.

2 (29m 3s):
Yeah. Okay. Eric, I think we're about to wrap this up. I just, I just got two more questions for you. The first question is I want you to speak about anything, which I haven't asked you so far. If there's anything you would like to talk about, please do

3 (29m 25s):
Well. So one thing I, I struggle with and, you know, especially when you get psychotic or you get manic and you're, you're experiencing these things at the same time, tend to get very irritable. One thing everyone should really try to understand is even if you're, you know, extremely mentally ill do everything you can just to be, even if it's the hardest thing you can do, just to be kind to the people around you, the people that are in your support network, even if they're not perfect, even if, sometimes they can't be there for you, just, you know, give them a smile and tell them you appreciate them. You know, even if you're in your darkest moment, it's going to make you feel better.

3 (30m 9s):
If you just appreciate someone who's been there for you.

0 (30m 13s):
Yeah. That's good advice, man. You don't often hear that perspective, but yeah, that is, that takes a heck of strength of character, I think, to be able to do that. Okay. Sorry. The final question is what type of music do you like? What kind of drawn where,

3 (30m 36s):
So I'm extremely eclectic. So, you know, I obviously I'm really into like broke composers, like Bach, you know, maybe. And so it's like pretty mainstream composers, like Bach and then romance, Beethoven and Mozart and all that. And, but, you know, I also get really, I have, I like heavy metal. I like some more like older bands. I don't really know how to define their genre, but I've been really into like Creedence, Clearwater revival and, you know, kind of like, I guess it's like 60 seventies type of music.

0 (31m 13s):
Okay. Okay. Well, that's fine. I just want to say thank you for speaking with me and to speaking to our listeners and just helping to get the knowledge out there, that awareness education of Schizoaffective and schizophrenia, you know, these conditions, you know, I just, I just want to say thank you, man. Talk to you.

3 (31m 41s):
Thanks so much for giving me the opportunity.

0 (32m 38s):
<inaudible>.