1 (32s):
Welcome to another episode of Interview at the schizophrenia. I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I'd like to welcome. Travis from Texas a and the United States. He is 28 years old. He's a diagnosis schizophrenia. Hello Travis how are you doing today?

2 (52s):
I'm doing great. How about yourself?

1 (56s):
You know, I'm doing fine, you know, and not too bad to say it a little holiday book. I am going back to work tomorrow, but she would be fine. How, how has the COVID situation and, and where you are?

2 (1m 9s):
It's it's Okay mostly everybody wears masks.

1 (1m 13s):
Yeah, that's cool. I think, I think mosques all the way forward. The, I think it's difficult for them because they won't be able to go back to work and there could be a second spike. Okay.

2 (1m 27s):
Yeah. That's the only thing that I'm worried about to is the second spike, you know?

1 (1m 31s):
Yeah. So I think that it's probably, it's probably likely to happen, but I guess we'll just have to wait and say, okay, so let's get started. Well, I would like to ask you is if you tell me about how your mental health journey began, what your first symptoms were, how old were you when that happened? And you got the diagnosis, did you go to the hospital? That sort of things, if you like to talk about that.

2 (2m 0s):
Okay. So about two years ago when I was 26 years old, I started having, well, I guess we call it an enlightenment. Like I was sitting at work and I was just start thinking about the most random things in my mind would present to me these like huge lodge, like leaps of M like beyond logic, just essentially it came out to be that, like I had come to the conclusion that I was God and that yeah. And that like the whole universe was basically revolving around me. That's where the solipsism began.

2 (2m 44s):
Or then after that, about a couple of weeks later, I was a working and I turned around and I saw my coworker, literally just teleport right in front of me. He moved from one location to another, without any time Yeah without any time in between.

3 (3m 1s):
And so

1 (3m 2s):
It was your explanation.

3 (3m 5s):
I, I fault part of the enlightenment thing was that I thought I had figured out that the universe was a simulation and that there were multiple parallel dimensions and stuff like that. And yeah. So my whole thing was that he must've like unlocked something within a matrix. And my, my other thing was that everybody could tell apart, like if I could see my coworker teleport, then I could teleport. That's the, that's what set off a bunch of delusions,

1 (3m 37s):
You know, it, could it be an M you could have dissociate it for like, for like 20 seconds or something is possible. I mean, that's like a psychiatric explanation, but yeah. So it kind of carry on with your story anyway.

3 (3m 58s):
Yeah. I thought about it extensively. Like I came to the conclusion that I must've just hallucinated. 'cause like as cool as it is. Its impossible to teleport. But so from then on, I didn't have much in the way of voices, not until about a year ago. I'm just like a few things. One, a, everything felt like a story like your whole entire life. He just felt like one big ass, like storybook a, there was like four or shadowing. There is climaxes. It was crazy. Like there amount of continuity that they're would be between the multiple days and like my delusions and how the continuity between like what I thought my roommates were saying when they actually weren't.

3 (4m 47s):
Cause one of the big things was that my roommates were commenting on my thoughts or they would comment on, on like the general story, quote unquote, that was going on at the time. He was really weird.

1 (5m 4s):
This sounds weird. But yeah. I mean, you know, you know, this is, yeah. I mean, I guess that's all part of the illnesses and that like, you could have like a synchronicities, do you know what I mean? Where we are, what your thinking and what happens in your life? It's kind of like coincide, coincides Yeah I would get that a lot. And that that's like a, that's not my imagination. The actually happens. It's it's kind of like a bizarre experience where it isn't it. Yeah. It is what we're not imagining that, you know, how it actually happens.

3 (5m 46s):
Yeah. One of the weird things to me was unbidden images. I would just get images of and I had an app, like, you know how Mike, you can usually recall image in your brain and it will just like come to you, but you know that you did it. So if there was no worry, it, it would just happened to me. I would just be sitting there and I'd all of a sudden I get an image of something. And usually it's about a, like a white box or something like that. Yeah.

1 (6m 14s):
I mean that, you know, I have, I have a similar that, a similar thing that happens to me is it not happen often, but occasionally I get an image or I'll get a scene in my head and it will be a, if somebody in real life for like somebody laughing or somebody's, you know, somebody's, do you know what it means? It's like a, it would be almost like a, like an expert excerpt of somebody's life. And I don't know. I don't know what it means, but yeah, it is. It's a strange run for sure. Definitely. Definitely. Yes. Did you, do you get hypnogogic and illusions as well?

1 (6m 56s):
So it is that is that in my time hallucinations.

3 (6m 60s):
And when you were about to fall asleep,

1 (7m 2s):
I don't really know why my, my license is during the day. Usually.

3 (7m 10s):
Yeah. Mine are usually at night just before falling asleep. I would like hear a voice or something like that. That's lately. So back to the story I, I, it took about, I don't know, I would say about a year of me just going through life, thinking that I was part of like a space, like I was able to travel between parallel dimensions because like of the stuff that I had been through, I remember my coworker said to me one night, Oh, you're not supposed to talk about it. So I had assumed that it was like a Rite of passage kind of thing that everybody went through going through.

3 (7m 51s):
And it turns out that I was, he would either was talking about something else or a hallucinated. Fine. I find that a lot of the time, if it's integrate with like actual, like he would say that most of the time I probably hallucinated. Okay.

1 (8m 8s):
Yeah. To me, I mean, that's a bit, it's a good thing. That is, it it's like fight club or something. Nobody talks about it, but you know, it happens. I like the opposite of everybody, but we don't talk about it. You're like, Oh, well, they kind of in the way, but you're not really on the whole story. It's that sorta thing. Yeah. 'cause I mean, I just think your back going back to about 18 years, I was, I was on the flight back from Germany and I thought everybody is telepathic and its normal, but I just haven't told me about it.

3 (8m 42s):
Yes. That's exactly it. Yeah. That's exactly what it is.

1 (8m 46s):
Do you know what I mean? I'll just pull it all. Yeah. It must be just normal, but nobody, for some reason they would be told me. And he was like

3 (8m 56s):
The leaps of logic that your brain.

1 (8m 59s):
Oh, okay.

3 (9m 3s):
Yeah. So about a year ago is when I started getting voices. They, it wasn't bad at first it was just very perplexing. Like it would say wrong. Well, I would be in the middle of doing something and a, I would be thinking about it. And all of a sudden I hear it's like somebody whispering my ear wrong or something like that. And then it became, I call it a, it, it was like Highlander. There could be the only one I was like, yeah, for some reason that was like, it was, it became an obsession for me. I like started falling into this weird little hole I made for myself where I was like, thinking about it.

3 (9m 46s):
But basically it's magical thoughts, like your thoughts going to have impact on the world, around you or whatnot. And so like, I came up with this entire system of anti-hacking because like I said, in my mind it was mind hackers. That's why I was experiencing. Okay.

1 (10m 2s):
Yeah. That's right. Yeah. That was, that was my first experience. I thought my mind had been hacked. Yeah. It feels like that. Yeah. I know that they've gained entry to your mind and they can do what I want. They can screw around in your life and stuff. But I like that that's going back a long time, but that's one of my first explanations with my game hat.

3 (10m 24s):
Yeah. I thought there were a space-time police to it. It was nuts. Space-time lard. So I thought that was a thing just cause of the sacredness of it kind of deal. It just, it made the most logical sense in my mind. And yeah. So after I started getting voices, it wasn't too bad, but I wasn't being medicated. After a while I started getting disorganized thinking and eventually got to be word salad. I would, I would just be trying to go to sleep. And all of a sudden, my brain's like throwing a bunch of words at me that have no logical sense.

3 (11m 6s):
Like you, I couldn't decipher it. Even if I wanted to. And after that I was like, okay, this is enough. I got to go talk to my psychiatrist. Cause at that time I was seeing the psychiatrist. I had been told her, I was just seeing her for ADHD. And then I went ahead and told her and she, she asked me like a series of questions. It came down to the reason why she gave me a schizophrenia diagnosis. The diagnosis was because of my, the thought broadcasting. Yeah.

3 (11m 45s):
Like, and it was pretty bad too, because like, not only would I have thought broadcasting, but people would actually like turn to me and like comments on the thought that I had like yet they would move your mouth and everything. It was, it was nuts. Like I could, I didn't know that the brain could do that.

1 (12m 2s):
I mean, that's, that's got to be some sort of hallucination, right?

3 (12m 6s):
Yeah. Obviously when it, when it's happening to you, you have no other explanation other than they can read my thoughts and they are able to hear what I'm thinking,

1 (12m 16s):
You know, I've done it if this happened to you. But a few years ago, like we had suffered happened, like I'd be eating my cereal. And I puff out my cheeks because I was due, I was eating it and look at the television and, and Homer, Simpson's doing exactly the same thing. He's not eating fruit puffing out of his cheeks. And I'm just like weird stuff like that.

3 (12m 39s):
Well, I think it has something to do with the subconscious. The subconscious is a really powerful thing. That's my idea. Because like, I've also had dreams of the future and I was listening to your last podcast and you guys talk about that a little bit, but in my case, I remember I had a dream, like a hypnogogic at the illusion of me being, not an airplane at the time, I was like convinced that there was space, time police. Right. So I was spending all of my time to try to interrupt time, you know, being super random, like not thinking about what I was going to do before I did it. So that way it was it like in fact. Yeah.

1 (13m 16s):
Yeah. It's weird. It's weird. The way is like, I remember Frank was talking about it. He was my first interview and he said it's like training because it cut it. Because when you go for a schizophrenia, like chronic schizophrenia, you're kind of fighting against the strain. Generally I'm a mom. I used to think it was like a ball or something. So I fought, I was trying to be random, random shit just to confuse them. And, and, and I remember I put it as a virtual reality. So I go off on a fairy because I fought that the most graphic intensive thing we'd be water or do you know what I mean? Like water and I had a complaint, so it wouldn't be able to handle it.

1 (13m 58s):
And it was just like this, all the stuff that happened like that. Yeah.

3 (14m 6s):
Well, it's funny that you mentioned training because I hallucinated what, like I worked in the kitchen. Right. And so our tickets will come up and I hallucinated one of the tickets in training mode done or something like that. And yeah, that was the very beginning of my psychotic break and literally said training mode, if it definitely felt like that, though, it was, it was wild. But yeah, the dreams about the future, like I had a dream and I did my best to try to interrupt time, but I ended up in the same exact spot with him, the same exact circumstances. Anyway. And then I remember thinking, Oh, I had this dream last night and the guy who I was supposed to sit next to turn around.

3 (14m 51s):
And he said, that's

4 (14m 52s):
The truth right there. It was the freakiest thing, man.

1 (14m 57s):
I know it, it's just bizarre. The weigh, like when you, when you're in fight or that, when you're like, like for my experience, it was about a new, about 10 years ago that I got in contact with other people who are suffering with schizophrenia. So I fought, I was not alone anymore. But when, when you're, when do you feel that it's, if it's just you, it can be really intense when you think this is me and I'm going to put a strain shit. And there was like the world. Yeah. It's just so weird. But when you, when somebody else makes a joke about, Oh, you got to the FBI where I had a van, I said in my flat again last night and yeah, it was from Cuba.

1 (15m 37s):
And it's like, you know, it's not just me, you know, somebody else's thinking about this stuff. So that's really helpful, you know, that definitely, you know? Yes.

4 (15m 50s):
Yeah. So I understand what you mean. So my mom at the time was also going through schizophrenia. Yeah. She was diagnosed not too long after I was, she was way worse than I was though. She was kind of tonic. She wouldn't respond to like me trying to talk to her. She went, she was just like have conversations with people that weren't there. She like was losing weight, becoming ultra skinny. And then finally we were able to get her on Abilify and that helped her. And that also helped me out to, I was prescribed like Abilify 30 milligrams.

4 (16m 33s):
And at first I got the <inaudible>. If you haven't heard of propranolol, that stuff is really good. It's like a better Yeah propranolol. Yeah. Yeah, it's a beta blocker. It helps with the restlessness though. Okay.

1 (16m 52s):
'cause I, I went into a bonafide for like a year, but it was horrible for me because I know, I know that the advantage of Abilify is that it's one of the modern ones and also kind of white and neutral when a lot of the, like, I take a lens of pain and that's like, do you know what I mean? It's just a side effect, but that's the So I don't know. I don't, I'm a bit chicken to try benefit again, because it was, I didn't like the side effects. Really. Yeah.

4 (17m 25s):
Well, so my mom, she committed suicide about a month ago actually. And I think it was because of the Abilify She

1 (17m 37s):
Well, she actually passed away.

4 (17m 39s):
Yeah. She hung herself, actually. Jesus. Yeah. I know it's been rough dealing with that and like figuring out where everything's supposed to go and like, they don't make dining easy that's for sure. But I think it was because of the Abilify. She, she liked the biggest thing I noticed is that it's really hard to feel any kind of emotion, whether it be joy or sadness or anything like that. And I think she just either couldn't live with that anymore. 'cause I told her that would probably be, have to be on medication for the rest of our lives.

4 (18m 19s):
And, and I don't know what to do.

1 (18m 22s):
Hi, how are you doing that, man? Because like, I've, I've lost both my parents as well. How, how do you think, how do you think about it? Because that's different when someone commits suicide are not fo I don't know first had experience, but I know it can be quite traumatic. So how, how are you giving him a friend?

4 (18m 39s):
Well, it's weird. The Abilify, it kinda makes it so like, I'll be sad, but I can't cry. Mmm. It's pretty awful. I, I really hate that about the medication. Other than that, its, it feels like she went on vacation for a little while and I'll see her again. But I think that's just the denial stage. It, it hurts a lot, but yeah,

1 (19m 3s):
I know. Yeah. I mean I'm, I've kind of got a spare. I, I kind of got a strong spiritual non-religious beliefs, which helped me, you know, you know, there are certain people you can read books by like Brian Wise, Michael Newton, who could give you a good sort of the idea of, of the spiritual world in a spiritual realms. So I'm kind of saying is you might not be far wrong with what you are actually thinking that you might see her again, you might not be far on with that so that they are all kind of spiritual peop you know, books out there, which give credence to that.

1 (19m 52s):
But it's, it's not a slight, it's not religious. So, you know, it's just, it's more, is more about people's experiences with death and stuff.

4 (20m 2s):
Yeah. I actually, I should look into that. Like I did, I lost my father and my brother about five years ago. So yeah. It's like when I lost them, is it the amount of crying that I did was way more than in a matter of crying I've am now. And I, I swear, I think it's just the Abilify because it, it really does put a damper on your emotions.

1 (20m 29s):
Yeah. So I think, I think for me when my, my mom passed in 2007 and I was like, I was like in a wreck, I couldn't have the lip. You know, it is like, is like, whatever is like too, it was too bad as too seriously intense for me, but my dad passed last year and that was a lot smoother. So that's kind of like the first ones, the first one was tougher ones Yeah so that, I think that might not be there yet. You know?

4 (20m 57s):
I think so too. I honestly do.

1 (21m 2s):
So how are you coping with life now than Travis

4 (21m 7s):
Pretty well, I have a job working at 20 hours a week, Amazon doing warehouse stuff. It's pretty all right. I've noticed that my energy levels have definitely gone down mostly because I'm also ADHD. So without my ADHD medication, it's hard for me to like keep my life together. I'm going to have to talk to my doctor and see if I can be prescribed like a concern or something. Cause it, it, it, it gets really bad. I procrastinate too much from my own.

1 (21m 41s):
Do you, have you found that you were kind of, you became an expert in psychiatric medication should, I mean, you kind of know all the shit is like, it's just kind of like,

4 (21m 56s):
Yeah. I, I kind of had to become an expert in schizophrenia, psychiatric medication. I did a lot of studying of a Zen, a little bit of Buddhism, but mostly Zen Zen helped me out, like a lot of trying to get rid of the, like the finding of the little meaning and the most random things, which was my problem. Being able to be like, okay, everything's just empty and devoid of meaning, devoid of like any characteristic helped me out a ton. But so studying Zen helped me a bunch.

4 (22m 38s):
I think it would help a lot of other people to just like you, you don't have to like subscribe to Buddhism as a whole, but Zen itself has like a huge boon.

1 (22m 50s):
Yeah. I think, you know, like I've heard about people, you know, like when, when you're working, you can go through ups and downs and like, if you, if you have Zen attitude, I just want more remain peaceful and calm, balanced life has a lot easier. So I kind of, I've heard of that. Actually. I tried to play, I think, I think to myself, yeah, just be Zen. I just don't know everything effect you. Do you know what I mean? And it just kind of just, I just think even if something, somebody gives you something stressful to do the swing. Okay. Fine. I'll just, Oh yeah. It's not a problem with that to every everything's the same, I guess.

1 (23m 30s):
Yeah.

4 (23m 31s):
For me. But it helps me deal with intrusive thoughts. I, we get that a lot.

1 (23m 37s):
Yeah. To the horrible intrusive for is a horrible

4 (23m 40s):
Yeah. They are. And like, due to the fact that I was also thinking of that broadcasting, like my thoughts would just

3 (23m 47s):
Come in the wildest outlandish things I can ever think of. And it would just sit on my head and I would look at it in my own mind. I'd be like, Oh, well, I created that. So like learning how to deal with intrusive thoughts, which also did go away when the Abilify, Oh, by the way, I'm learning how to deal with that. You were really like, it brought me towards Zen and looking at the Zen scriptures and the Cohens and whatnot.

1 (24m 17s):
Yeah. I mean, yeah. I mean, a thing is the benefit of working for you, isn't it?

3 (24m 23s):
Yeah. For the most part, I see it. I still have the, a, the hypnagogic allusions and it only happens that night. It drives me nuts. Cause like right now I'm actually in between prescriptions. I ended up procrastinating calling my doctor. So I haven't taken it in the past like six days or something like that. And it hasn't been terrible. Like I've been just doing just fine. Like I think the ultimate

1 (24m 52s):
Do you, do you sometimes like as a stash of medication And and that sort of things, but I like it. I mean, you have a, I guess you'd want to have a medication, but sometimes some people are, a lot of people just don't take their medication and then they end up with a cup of full of the medication and, and then the next day I'll take him again. And then they said, I mean, I I've got a stash of medication because my dosage changes and these, this changes the old medications. And like, I would say they get a new one in, so I got like my own personal stash,

3 (25m 25s):
You know, I've been actually taking them pretty religiously Yeah and making sure that I would take them every day, even if I don't feel like it, that I needed or anything like that. Cause just because of what I've read in how like dopamine, it interacts with your brain and how like stopping a medication like that, could it potentially lead to another psychotic break, which by the way, like how, how was your cognitive level after you had your psychotic break? So yeah.

1 (25m 56s):
Do you know? I mean, my job is like in software and software engineering, so I'm able, at the moment I took seven years out where I was, I was in mental health recovery where I did, I just, I just did volunteer work. I went to therapy groups and, and it took me seven years to get back to the level where I, I felt confident enough to do a professional, you know, like a job, which requires abstract thinking, abstract thinking logic or that sort of stuff. So, so it took me a while, took me seven years to get to that level.

1 (26m 37s):
So yeah, so I was out of work for seven years and then in recovery and know that that's how he was able to get back into the work environment. But more to, what was it I would say is my cognitive level has dipped in the past when I was, I reckon it a bit quite severely back in about 2009 when I was probably about a 30 or 44 years old. That was that's when, like, when I tried to do my resume, my CV, it was just, it just looked at for a child. I had waited. It was just so simple. I just couldn't, I just couldn't, I couldn't think properly, but you know, obviously if you're going into a resume, you're not, you know, paying around, you want it to make it as good as possible, but my mind, it was just ridiculous.

1 (27m 32s):
So but how has that effected you as well?

2 (27m 35s):
I initially did, like I would say I started noticing a decreased cognitive level about a year after my psychotic break, but first psychotic break. Cause I, who knows how many psychotic breaks I've had, I fake, I'm guessing around like three of them in that two year period. But yeah, initially, like I, I forgot how to like the definitions of words my memory started. Like if my memory is still is very crap. And I think that that has something to do with the medications and then the, yeah, it like, it hasn't prevented me from getting any jobs per se, but it has gotten me fired from jobs nicotine.

2 (28m 25s):
Yes.

1 (28m 27s):
Well, I could hear you doing that cause I also do that as well. Is that all schizophrenia? States nicotine somehow. Okay.

2 (28m 35s):
Yeah. Actually I heard that a nicotine is an anti-psychotic as well.

1 (28m 39s):
It's hard to say, I think, cause it just kind of assumes, I, you know, it's just kind of serves the mind, I guess. It's not something that makes feels good, basically, whatever it is.

2 (28m 50s):
Yeah. I smoked since I was 18 and, and it switched over to vaping like in 2015, but yeah, it like, that's another thing that I didn't like about the Abilify is that whenever I would smoke, I would never feel like satisfied after smoking or eating. Or I gained a lot of weight when, when I was taking a bill of five, I managed to drop a lot of it too with Kito. That helped a lot.

1 (29m 22s):
Yeah. I know that helps a lot. The people, I mean my personal stance is kind of a vegan ish. Not, not pure vegan, but kind of a vegan 70% of the time. But I don't know. I don't know. I losing way is quite, I don't know. I, I don't know I'm going to work, work on it actually, cause I need to live way as well. I just wanted to ask you, have you experienced any stigma or discrimination, a following becoming it was schizophrenia?

2 (29m 53s):
Not, well, I haven't really told anyone other than my immediate family and my immediate family. They're very supportive and caring. I all I've heard was like a little bit of like discrimination, I guess a from my uncle, but that's about it and it wasn't even that bad. It was more like a, they were empathetic towards my, towards what I'm going through.

1 (30m 21s):
And why haven't you told anybody about this apart from the media family?

2 (30m 28s):
Well, I know I'm not really a super social person. A and then secondly, yeah, it doesn't have a pretty big stigma attached to it.

1 (30m 38s):
Yeah. So that's why I was getting to Yeah is kind of like a bit difficult. Isn't it? The same way you tell someone that and it's like, yeah, it's kind of, this is a difficult one, but you know, they, it's kind of, what we're trying to do here is to bring schizophrenia into the mainstream kicking and screaming and, and say, you know what, real people are dealing with this. And you know, we're not, we're not mass murders that that's like 1% of schizophrenia people, 99% of schizophrenia, people are just trying to get by. I'm just trying to struggle with these symptoms and, and that's all it is.

1 (31m 18s):
So let's see. Yeah okay. Travis I think that we could wrap it up here. Okay. Is there any particular genre of music that you like, which I can tag onto the end? I like metal.

0 (31m 32s):
Cool. So he was like, fuck, you brought him up. He was quite a lot of joy. Thank you so much. You have a pool <inaudible> <inaudible>.