0 (6s):
<inaudible> hello and welcome to another episode of interview with schizophrenia. I am your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I would like to welcome Ed from Tennessee.

0 (46s):
Hello, and welcome to the show. How you doing today? I'm doing great. How you doing? You know, I'm doing fine. Just enjoy the weekend. And, and I'm just watching a lot of the sports on the television, which has started again, you know, which just created for how things were for you in the coronavirus,

1 (1m 8s):
On the Corona virus. Right now, they're trying to get it under control pretty much. And they want us to wear a mask and all that and all that stuff.

0 (1m 17s):
Yeah. So if we're going to wear masks, but yeah, it is what it is. Okay, great. Let's let's start our discussion on schizophrenia. Why don't you tell me how it started for you, how you wear when you first became, you know, how you would buy it? Why did you tell me about that?

1 (1m 39s):
Well, when I first became male, I lived in, in a apartment complex in town and I started to hear things. As soon as I woke up one day, I just started hearing things and I didn't know what they were or where they're coming from or anything like that. And it was a, it was, it was crazy. The, the voice has said that there was cameras and microphones and stuff like that. So I tore up my art and looking for these cameras or microphones or anything like that. And I found nothing.

0 (2m 15s):
I mean, that, that, that is a Yeah, that's a classic classic, isn't it? Because I'm so, so you started off with the voices. That was, that was the main thing for you when it all began Yeah

1 (2m 30s):
Well, yeah, the voices and a, the vision's or a visual hallucinations, I call them visions. Yeah. The vision for intense to at the time I have a vision problem from it. I see static all the time. It looks like blue and red static. Okay.

0 (2m 50s):
Okay. So how old are you now? I'm 30. And what, what age was it when it started in 26, 27?

1 (3m 1s):
Somewhere in there? I'm not sure in my memory is kind of,

0 (3m 4s):
Yeah. My memory is hazy. It was the same with me. My memory of when it started, it is hazy. I can't, I can't pinpoint it. I think, I think your mind, when you go through so many traumatic, like the onset of schizophrenia, I think your mind sort of blocks it out a little bit. So it's difficult to do, you know what I mean? It kind of blocks a lot of hours, so then you have, they don't have to consciously access or access those memories. I think, I think that's probably how it has a strong if he'd say, I mean, that's the main, so basic you were having kind of like a paranoid delusions when you, that you would be watched the waist as we're talking to you to be okay.

1 (3m 56s):
Yeah. I was making a really bad choice. It was at the time, you know, what habits and whatnot. So my friend's all my friends for me to have to be schizophrenia. And I've talked to them about this. Most of the people I hung out with were schizophrenia, but they never told me until I got schizophrenia.

0 (4m 17s):
Oh really? And I've had 10, just because of the, I'm sorry. Carry on. Carry on.

1 (4m 28s):
I've had telepathics situations where I don't just hear their voices. I go and talk to them and tell them what the thoughts are to see if they can verify it. That's what they were hearing. And that is,

0 (4m 45s):
Yeah. So you guys, you actually see the people as well. So when you do it, when they're having to tell him about my experiences, did you actually seen a person you in your mind or how does it work?

1 (5m 3s):
Well, for me, I just heard their voices a lot is a lot. It's a lot of fun for me. I heard their voices and I went and talked to them in person too. Right.

0 (5m 15s):
Oh, I see it. Yeah. It was true. It was true, but that's kind of weird. Isn't that? 'cause, I'm, you know, I kind of believed something similar. I kind of believed that, you know, that I experienced psychic phenomemon and is kind of strange. Right. You have Jabil explanation.

1 (5m 46s):
Do I have an explanation for it? Yes, indeed. I believe that it has to do with, to be specific. If you look up the definition of television, it means at a distance vision. And what television wage do is they transmit images and sound. It says cheaply used to reproduce on the screens, but what else could television. Okay.

0 (6m 10s):
Okay. Do you think to get her home?

1 (6m 19s):
Not the television, like the one that's in front of me right now. I mean television waves and stuff like that. I did a lot of research and they, I looked at the patent for television and they had an input arrangement for the central nervous system.

0 (6m 36s):
I'm really? Yes, sir. Because I used to also thinking it might be something to do, you know, not yet television is one thing, but we will say that, you know, like internet Wi-Fi, satellite, cell phones, radio waves, what is an information passing about around are heads? You know, there's a lot of stuff out of that I may be, may be kind of, you could maybe kind of piggyback on the, on the waives or something or, you know what I mean?

0 (7m 21s):
It is, you know what, man, I've kind of got a spiritual perspective as well, and I kind of think dreams or journeys into the Astro. And so, so when do you dream or not all the time, but some of the time your spirit will leave your body and that will explore the Astro gravels. That's kind of what I I believe. Okay. What, what would do you think Well

1 (7m 59s):
Personally, I think it has to do with your central nervous system and the energy, you know, what, like how do you have century experiences?

0 (8m 9s):
Yeah.

1 (8m 10s):
It could be something or you could smell something and stuff like that. I think that it has to do with the central nervous system interacting with this energy to give you that sensory experience.

0 (8m 23s):
So you're talking about waves again,

1 (8m 26s):
A guess because of the, the telepathic situations that I've had. And I went and verified them and talk to the people in person. I didn't just say, Oh my goodness, that's in my head. I'm not going to talk to these people. I knew these people, it's a small town and they do have schizophrenia,

0 (8m 45s):
You know? So, I mean, I find it difficult to talk about it, by the way I've made video blogs. Well, I would say the voice is a three desks. Do you know what I mean? By finding it difficult to confront, you know, the suspect's and say, you know, are you, are you thinking about this sort of thing? I find that awkward, maybe, maybe, maybe that's the name of the Australian and American fingers more kind of, do you know what I mean? Yeah,

1 (9m 18s):
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I, I, a lot of people really wouldn't do what I did, but I was very determined to know where these voices originated from and why I was hearing the things that I was hearing, because a lot of it, I mean, some of it was complete garbage. It was disgusting and messed up. And I didn't understand why I was thinking that way, why I was hearing these things and I verified it through two or three different sources. I've had four or five experiences where I could verify that it was the other person Yeah

0 (9m 53s):
Right in front of them. You know? Did you, did you, did you bring this up with your doctor?

1 (10m 0s):
Oh yes. Yeah. Yeah. I told her they, they, they, they kept correcting me and kept saying visual hallucinations and auditory. And I kept saying visions and hearing voices. I was very, very much adamant on them knowing that I was hearing voices. And I had telepathic situations that I had benefited.

0 (10m 29s):
I said, what did I think about a 10 up for failure

1 (10m 35s):
In America? They just look at it like it's schizophrenia, it's all delusions and it's fake and there's nothing real to it.

0 (10m 43s):
Well, I kind of think that over here as well, you know, people, you know, you do get S you think that people quantities walking, but most people just being schizophrenia. Oh yeah. That just, you know, that this is a bit crazy. They don't really understand that. You know, they don't really know that some people say, or one, you got to meditate, you know, Okay find meditation. Yeah. It's, it might be good at, but it's not schizophrenia. It's not going to do with schizophrenia. I'm you know, when, when you are hearing voices, I don't, I don't know. I don't know how to stop it. You know what I mean? It's a, you said something to me on the floor.

0 (11m 24s):
And you said, if you tell your voices that you don't want to be telepathic, they stopped. Is that correct?

1 (11m 31s):
Mine have stopped because I have sent mail to myself. I sent certified mail with my rules and laws. I have receipts I've sent cease and desist letters to other telepaths or other schizophrenia works. So I wouldn't hear their voices anymore. And my cease and desist letter and telepathy and sounds.

0 (11m 55s):
Wow. So do you actually send them letters to your friends?

1 (12m 1s):
Well, there one was my really good friend and she told me the truth. And then the other one was just so many. I live next to me, but yes, I sent him both cease and desist letters and within the cease and desist letter, it included the telepathy and sounds

0 (12m 17s):
Wow. So they kind of knew what they were doing. Okay.

1 (12m 22s):
Well, I think everybody was confused because two of these people were already hearing voices. Then I started to hear voices and I got thrown into that mix and nobody knew what was going on or why they were hearing this or why they were hearing that it was, it was insane. It was crazy. Nobody knew what was going on. Okay.

0 (12m 45s):
Okay. So yeah, I mean, you had not many people are kind of admit it about the telepathy side, but I'm kind of, I kind of think, and that's what it is. It has as it, do you ever received any information that was helpful? You know, have you received like something in your mind? And if so, yeah, that's pretty helpful. I can use that to go to hell all of my life. Has that ever happened?

1 (13m 18s):
I don't want to say what it was, but yes, it has happened to me quite a few times and didn't let me have some insight into what was going on. Okay.

0 (13m 26s):
Okay, cool. So what did you do now at, are you on, when are you doing now, is your occupation and in your day-to-day life?

1 (13m 39s):
I was working at a factory and there was someone who has schizophrenia there to, and it turns out that when certain schizophrenia chicks make bad choices were bad habits, you know, like illegal drugs and stuff like that. And you can hear their voices, their privacy. Yes. I guarantee it because it's happened to me many times. And this dude that I worked with made bad choices, and it was a complete, annoying repetitious voices. That was like, it kept saying douce bag douce bag, do SPAG and so on and so forth.

1 (14m 23s):
And he told me, he came up and told me that he was hearing voices. And I never said anything to him about hearing voices. I told him my friend of mine heard voices to kind of throw them off a little bit. And then I told him the truth, you know, like I don't have a occupation right now that the voices there at the job are terrible. Okay.

0 (14m 53s):
Okay. Fine. So, so how did your family rec to you to be becoming ill going for a schizophrenia? Well, at first, at first you are caring.

1 (15m 13s):
They a, my old lady didn't like it. She said it was crazy and she pretty much kicked me out of the, the place I was living in. And I went to the parents because that was my next former support, because I didn't know what was going on. Okay,

0 (15m 34s):
Go ahead. Go ahead. So I was going to say, how did your parents treat you?

1 (15m 39s):
They treated me. They listen to everything I said, and they're very supportive about it. They don't, they believe what I'm saying. And, you know, I told him I'm about to telepathic situations and stuff like that in the links, I think it has to do with dreams and that type of energy. They're very supportive though. And so it was my old lady now,

0 (16m 7s):
You know, when, when you are your parents or your, your wife are supportive, I think that that makes such a great deal of difference. You know, that that's probably one of the most important things in this, because you need, you meet someone and when you can just relax and you can say, you know, this is what I'm thinking, and you can talk about it candidly, without having to worry about being judged or being ostracized, you know, they say, so that's fantastic. And I'm wondering, what about your friends? You've only mentioned that some of your friend's with schizophrenia, like what did you have wet school friends. And when did they treat you differently?

0 (16m 48s):
Once he, once he just wants it all started. Okay.

1 (16m 53s):
Well, I kind of isolated myself and I'm still pretty much isolated. And the only time I go to town is to talk to people that are having addiction troubles. And I talk to them about the possible consequences to those actions.

0 (17m 12s):
So are you involved and kind of peer support, you know?

1 (17m 16s):
Yes. Yeah. I support the people that are going through addiction problems and I tell them the possible consequence, they could start hearing voices and I try to scare them into thinking and associating that drug of choice with them

0 (17m 31s):
Voices. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you'll talk to you and things like drinking. What about drinking beer? Is that okay? Or,

1 (17m 45s):
Well, yeah, of course. Yeah. I love it. I love a good cold beer every now and again.

0 (17m 50s):
Yeah. I mean, cause I kind of drink bear. I started having like a cigar once a day. Mmm. That's pretty much it as, as you know, as bad choices I guess, but are you talking more about sort of drugs and hard drugs and stuff like that?

1 (18m 9s):
I I'm talking about a Yeah hard drugs and stuff like that. Like for instance, the other day I went over to a friend's and he was having trouble with his choices and I tried to appeal to him on a religious level because he's very religious, You know, God will help him and stuff like that. And you know, I'm trying to appeal to them on a religious level. I've done that quite a few times. A couple of the people that were having problems with their addictions. I, I pretty much used the way they believe to try to support them, wanting to quit.

0 (18m 54s):
I think, I think that you might be off or you want to be on to something or do you want us to, if you are, because you have your own kind of theory and it, the, at the end of the day you are basically, you're promoting a healthy lifestyle. You are promoting healthy relationships with honest communication, you know, he said that that's all, that's all good stuff, man. That has to be on a severe. So CSS, tell me more about 'em. What kind of things do you do, you know, like during the Bay to kind of look, to relax your mind to, I mean, 'cause a lot people like, like I had listened to the music, you know, is there anything that you like to do to kind of like a, like a good habit, like a good, good habits.

1 (19m 51s):
I liked to, I liked to live dumbbells and I, I kind of slacked off and walked in here with the virus and whatnot, but I've gained a little bit of weight because I haven't been walking as much as I usually would walk about seven miles from here to town from here down.

0 (20m 8s):
Oh, let's not. Do you, are you saying so when you, you told me you were living in the States, so is it a, is it kind of a countryside surroundings where you are, so when you walked the town, you kind of walk it into the country.

1 (20m 23s):
Okay. Yeah. You're walking into complete country, cows farms, horses. Okay.

0 (20m 28s):
That's awesome. That's awesome. Awesome. 'cause I think, I think, I think being with nature is that also a very beneficial, extremely beneficial to your well-being as whole, as a whole, I think. Absolutely. Okay. That's fantastic. So, so what are your hopes for the future? I mean, because I think you are doing well now, so what, what are your kind of just so you only for 30, so what, what did you see? W would you say, what did you see the rest of your life?

1 (21m 7s):
Ah, well, my plans is to eventually move to Iceland is one of my plans and well, let's see, Oh, I also also a to prevent other people from making the same choices that I made so that they don't hear the things that I hear. It's a prevention method. That's something else that interests me to try and help people like that. So because nobody told me Oh you could hear her voice was if you did this, no one told me that. So I'm going around and telling people you could possibly hear voices and get schizophrenia or psychosis. So I like doing that and my family lives in Iceland.

1 (21m 55s):
Yeah. My three kids in my old lady, they moved to Iceland. She's from Iceland originally.

0 (22m 2s):
Well, that's fantastic. I mean, to be fantastic if you could join them up again as well. That's excellent. Yeah,

1 (22m 10s):
That's the plan and that's the plan, but I, I believe that we're hearing voices by accident. I believe it's a complete accident and you're not targeted at all. It's just a weird reaction between the central nervous system in the energy that is around us. I believe it connects us to our environment really.

0 (22m 35s):
You know, I didn't know. I don't know if I don't really trying to think about and the reason why, but I kind of, I kind of, I'm kind of spiritual. So I think that if we have to go through this, we will be strong enough to cope. You know, if we have to badness bourbon, we will have the gifts to be able to overcome it. You know, that's, that's kind of hard in my belief, you know? So I would say so. So you kind of liked doing peer support, you know, and I liked to laugh because obviously on the forum you are supporting of people, you know, we, you see each other and to follow him in your sport, people are supporting people.

0 (23m 21s):
I think that's the shared, the shared passion we both have, because that is also something kind of with my life. I quite like to do that as well to do peer support. I think, I feel like it's important.

1 (23m 41s):
Yeah. So I see what you're doing that all the time, you are always helpful to people, all the, so I try to do the same thing, but I'm, I feel like you're really kind about it. You're like really nice and supportive. I'm a little abrupt. I'm just like, yep.

0 (23m 57s):
You know, it's different strokes, man. Different strikes. That's did you, have you experienced any discrimination or stigma? Okay.

1 (24m 9s):
No, not really. I mean, I'll just tell people like it is, or I've had telepathic experiences. I've had visions, I've interacted with somebody whose dream while they were sleeping before and they woke up and told me that they were, had a dream about what I was thinking about.

0 (24m 28s):
Yeah.

1 (24m 29s):
So I walked into another apartment and I was thinking that I saw a dog when I walked in, in this person, didn't have a dog. And then I walked up there to them and they woke up and they were like how he was just having a dream about a dog. Okay.

0 (24m 45s):
You know, that's a pretty, it's a big difference between America and England. I think that, I think you are a lot that you speak more in America. Like in England, we don't speak so much as, as much as we should, you know, because like, you know, you're speaking about this sort of thing. Whereas in this country, people wouldn't like to talk about it. That would be like, you know, they don't want to talk about it. Do you know what I mean?

1 (25m 11s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of like a negative thing.

0 (25m 14s):
I think that, yeah, it's kind of, they don't want to admit to that side of life so that they just want to talk about it. Have you ever experienced anybody bullying you and as everybody, you don't have you experienced being bullied? You know, if somebody's bring in a meal okay.

1 (25m 41s):
In my head or in real life, I don't know that I don't usually get bullied in real life because I'm, I'm, I'm not making or nothing, but I, my physical appearance is kind of stout. And as far as I've been told a lot and I usually, I'm just really nice to everybody and they don't bully me. Okay.

0 (26m 6s):
Okay. Cool. Cool. Okay. Fine. I think one last question. Is there anything that I'm like, you want to say that I have not asked you yet? Is there anything you want to say? I mean, anything extra that you wanna tell me? Okay.

1 (26m 23s):
Well, I believe that the targeted individuals have the right type of thought by coming together like they do, but they have the wrong type of motivation. They're saying that the government's out to get them and the government is not out to get them at all. If they came together and there were like, Hey, this is a, this was

0 (26m 44s):
An accident. This accident actually happened to me. And I am going to try not to live with it. And they took a different approach. Their voices would be so much better. Okay. That's great, man. Thank you very much. Okay. And just want us to do and what type of music you like? I like to start to set a lot. Okay. We're kind of genre. Is that, is that like dance music of all it, but it wasn't me. I it's, I let you listen to it the other day I sent you a copy to links. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, cool.

0 (27m 26s):
So thank you very much for speaking with me. Absolutely pleasure. I think, I think, you know, you got quite a unique perspective and you know, and I think, I think when you say makes the hand of last sentence as well, you know, my finger, you've got a good message, which you and I, and I hope this, this platform will also educate people as well, you know? Cause that's, that's, that's the important thing. Yeah. Thank you for your time and I'd be happy.

2 (28m 7s):
You too. Thank you for inviting me. I appreciate it.

2 (28m 9s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>.