1 (31s):
Hello and welcome to another episode of Interview with schizophrenia today. I have Aaron with me. He is in the United Kingdom and Birmingham so, Aaron, how are you doing? Welcome to the show.

0 (49s):
I am doing great. Thanks for having me.

1 (52s):
It's absolutely a pleasure of mine. So I didn't know too much about Aaron's backstories, so let's find out. So why don't you tell me about how your mental health journey begins?

0 (1m 3s):
So it all began, I think really with smoking a lot of weed, we'd just started when I was 16, 17, and then the, so I began to hear voices around the time I was a 17, 18. I know it was just too female voices that would talk to me. And they'd sort of common on my actions and se I thought that had control of the, you know, the recommended videos on YouTube. And so when I read them, you seem like it was a secret messages. They would place me. And I had read through them and I was reading sort of story that they've made. But anyways, so it developed from there you got worse and worse until I was trying to, I thought it was the neighbors cause I had two young female neighbors.

0 (1m 47s):
And so I tried to sort of talk to them and communicate with them. And it ended up with a beginning section two, which is a involuntary admit it to the hospital. So I was taken to the hospital in July 28, 2019, and I was there for three months and, and initially I was diagnosed with post is, Oh, sorry, go ahead.

1 (2m 13s):
I saw it. It would be interesting for me to know what the hospital was like, because I, I think one of my friends was in a ward last year. I had visited him and there was a lot different to when I was in the world. And so what did he tell me about the hospital?

0 (2m 28s):
Well, I think the hospital is very restrictive. I think the main qualm are happy with it is that they don't allow you to smoke cigarettes, which leads to sort of like a underground everyone's smuggling cigarettes and paying an extortion of prices for them. But in terms of the day-to-day, this stuff is great. And there's quite a lot of little bitty, so you're allowed to have your phone's and stuff, which I think is great. I think overall it was a needed experience. It wasn't a very pleasurable, but it was needed. Did they give you

1 (3m 0s):
A pace? Pardon? Or did you, were you able to relax in there and where you able to get back some of your sanity?

0 (3m 10s):
You know what? I think my sanity only deteriorated the longer I was in it. So other patients sort of fed my delusions and I sort of started to think that it was like a secret recruitment camp for the telepathically Illuminati. So it wasn't actually great for my sanity. I think coming home did a lot more to help me get saying, okay,

1 (3m 33s):
So how, how will do you, what's your age?

0 (3m 35s):
I'm 80 or 19 next week, but I'm 18 on the way.

1 (3m 38s):
Oh, okay. Fine. Fine. So, you know, you're quite, you're quite a bit, are you a student?

0 (3m 47s):
I'm going to be a student I've joined university. I'm starting in September. So I'm quite excited about that.

1 (3m 54s):
Okay. And where are you going to start to go

0 (3m 56s):
To business and business management.

1 (3m 59s):
Okay, cool. Okay. So fine. So yeah, I mean, I also, when I was younger, I also did smoke a lot of weight and I think that was a factor in my psychosis as well

0 (4m 14s):
Triggered it, it doesn't, it, it sort of triggered it

1 (4m 16s):
Early. Yeah. So THC, the psychoactive and that's what, that's what I say encourages psychosis. Whereas the CBB is anti axial XLR tick, which is like an antianxiety and its sort of counterbalances THC.

0 (4m 38s):
Well with my friends, they just 90% THC So and benefit to you.

1 (4m 46s):
I think that affect the strain, the weed strains. Now compare to what I smoked about 20 years ago. They're much stronger in TAC.

0 (4m 57s):
Yeah. About 20 to 25% is crazy. Yeah.

1 (5m 1s):
Okay. That was pretty crazy. So why don't you tell me more about, so you, you go and you continue your story, you, when you went into hospital and then what happened so

0 (5m 11s):
Well, I think initially sort of realized, Oh, okay. These weren't really my neighbors. You are just hearing voices. And I think the main mistake I made is on the advice or one of the other patients who said that the medication was poison. I allowed that to get into my head and I decided to put the medication under my tongue and spit it out, even though it was oral disbursable, but you still only gave a partial effect. And that I think lead to my deterioration. So I've started to develop a lot of delusions. So I was thinking that all the people in there had been given lines and they were all there for me. And it was like a big test. And I did things about kicking the door to the stalker, but because I thought that I had one of the guys asked me to retrieve him some property from him there.

0 (5m 57s):
So I thought, you know what I need to do that. It's like a task for me. So I did a lot of, sort of out their things, but I didn't go into any fights. There were lots of fights going on. I think that's a big sort of a criticism of it is it's a bit like prison, you eat prison food, and there's a lot of fights going on.

1 (6m 18s):
Yeah, that's what I. So when I visited a friend last year of what I notice was how much more secure it was compared to when I was in, like, there was a lot from the doors and then a locked door for the board and each patient's bedroom was securely locked. You know, it was a lot more and it looks a lot more like a prison then when I, when I was in the hospital. And so that's why

0 (6m 49s):
To go into your room and you have to ask the one of the nurses to unlock it and then like it again. So you can actually use, and then you can unlock it from the inside. But if you're close the door, it locks again. So they've got a sort of locking system with all the doors. You are able to come and get your privacy, but you have to ask a nurse which can be a process in of itself because you have to knock on the office store and wait for one of them to be available, which can take 20 minutes, half an hour, just to do simple things, like go into your room. So it is a really sort of, it, it makes you the patient, you have to be patient to get the buy in the, and obviously that aggravates a lot of patients. So they would be waiting for 20 minutes and then that gets really angry and rode up and they are shouting and screaming on a fight.

0 (7m 35s):
Everyone's so yeah, I think some of the designs of the would lead to issues.

1 (7m 44s):
Yeah. Say what is your diagnosis then? Advisement.

0 (7m 49s):
Yeah. So initially it was psychosis, but after I had a second episode and it was a change to schizophrenia.

1 (7m 56s):
Okay. Fine. Okay. So if you want to talk about your symptoms.

0 (8m 2s):
So at the moment I still hear it. I still have delusions. Like when I'm going to go out on a walk, I've got a dog when I'm walking the dog. And I think that people are out to attack me and that cause it, it stems from real life issues that I've had. I've been stopped. I've been, I've had money, but in my head, so I've, I've gone through a lot of traumatic experiences and that is genuine that the police came to my house to warm me and my family about it. That's not just a delusion, but I've had a lot of real life stress, which I think contributes to it as well. And like the tipping point into psychosis and a source of the psychosis manifests itself around that.

0 (8m 46s):
So you have delusions that people are going to attack me because I've been working on people are just to attack me out of nowhere.

1 (8m 55s):
I mean, you know, I think I've talked about this before. I think, I think a statistically is always like one, a a hundred people get a schizophrenia. So, you know, I think that the trauma and a weed smoking is like, it doesn't help, but I don't think those two factors alone would make you have schizophrenia, but I would, I would perhaps encourage it if you were already predisposed. Do you know what I mean? It'll be like, yeah. You know, so, so you have, so your delusional or persecutory delusions that you have for people that are going to hold on.

0 (9m 38s):
Exactly. I also had delusions of grandeur thinking that I was going to be able to redact. I was going to join some secret Illuminati group that it was telepathic. And that, that would allow me to sort of run the world in a way that the ads on TV, where sort of way about me and my journey to join them, like other parts of the facets of their organization. So I was really out there, but I've, I've recovered off those with the help of the medication. I'm on the power of paradigm, an injection, which is, you know, a Depot they call him, which is once a month and really helps sort of deal with the symptoms and delusions, but it does have some side effects.

0 (10m 21s):
So my hands getting sort of shakey and my arms get contorted awkward. And it, it gives you a, a terrible sort of a brain fog way. You think you can really think clearly, which is not preferable is not ideal, but it is preferable to having schizophrenia badly, I guess. Okay.

1 (10m 45s):
How do your friends and family react to the, all of this?

0 (10m 49s):
All right. So with my friends, I put some crazy stuff on my Instagram story when I was in hospital. So I'm talking about the devil and how it was a Holocaust camp. And so a lot of people that it was sort of acquaintances with they've distanced themselves from me, but my close friends sort of just, they, they they've, there've been along with the journey.

1 (11m 16s):
Yeah. You know, I think that's where I think I'm like on Facebook and I would pay some pretty crazy stuff and I we'll lose friends, but there was always my close friends state that States you have to be in my mind about it. I know Duncan's web based is a bit, it does that generally. And I think, I think like most of them are kind of Okay, but it is, it is still difficult to talk about. I think, you know, I mean, have you experienced any stigma or discrimination?

0 (11m 54s):
Well, I think for awhile, when I got out of the hospital, I was trying to get a job and I put on my CV that I had psychosis and I didn't get any interviews until I took that off my CV. So I think there is a lot of just in a discrimination against people with a psychosis and schizophrenia that they don't want to employ them because I see it as a risk. So as soon as I took that off of my CV, I've got a job working in the warehouse before that, and it was going nowhere. So I think there is a lot of sort of societal discrimination against, you know, especially in the working world, but like, yeah, especially in the working world,

1 (12m 38s):
But so Y while your parents' for the future, or you want to get your degree and then what you want to do.

0 (12m 43s):
Okay. And eventually I would like to start my own business. I was a sort of involved with the smooth start up before that was doing a Bitcoin trading and that it was really successful. And I made a lot of money doing that. And it sort of given me a taste for what it's like, you know, I really love it. So I think one day I want to start my own business is after my business degree,

1 (13m 5s):
You know, because I think I'm, you know, I think working does is helps a lot because yeah, if you're on, if you're not working, you got to kind of disability benefits that can be quite stressful because, you know, you've always got a getting reassessed and you don't have much money and it can be quite stressful. Experience was just going for it and just giving, giving my best shot. And the early money is it is definitely worth it. So, yeah.

0 (13m 39s):
Well, it can be hard. I think I did notice some challenges once I was working in the warehouse. So I got called crazy by a couple people. And like sometimes when I was working down the hall, cause there was a big sort of a building when I was walking around outside sort of feel like an impending doom sensation and get really worried, but it didn't impact me too much. I was able to go on with my job, but it is definitely a part of working with schizophrenia. And you do have to sort of teal with the, the, the symptoms while you work in, which can be an extra challenge, but it is definitely overcomeable if you put your mind to it.

1 (14m 23s):
Yeah. So tell me, you told me about you have the lesions. Do you have hallucinations as well?

0 (14m 32s):
The only had one hallucination in my life where sort of, I was looking at my floor and I saw the spider come out of the floor and walk around for a while and then it sort of sunk back in to the floor, but I've only heard that one. So hopefully that doesn't get worse regarding that, but delusions, I mean, I think so, especially when I was in hospital, it was when I had the most delusions and I used to sort of thing that everyone, every other patient in there was completely sane and that they were in there to test me and challenged me. So I would try and sort of take, take the piss out of them or go along with their tests and thought if it gave me tasks to complete,

1 (15m 18s):
How did you get out of that? What did you have to do? Okay.

0 (15m 22s):
Just to get out of hospital. It really, it didn't really, it didn't leave me from the whole time I was in the hospital. I think, you know, only left me once I was out of hospital and I started to sort of assess reality a bit more like, okay. And nothing has happened to happen and joined a secret Illuminati. So maybe that wasn't true. That wasn't the case.

1 (15m 42s):
Well, it's kind of like when you go back to a safe environment, like your home, when you've grown up, you know, things and objects and people, they bring you back to who you really are and you know what I mean? So I think that that comfort or safety can, it can really help. I mean, to tell me how, how do you feel about what people think about schizophrenia? What, you know, what is image?

0 (16m 10s):
It's quite a bad image. There's a sort of a image that people are, have a violin and they want to attack people that are you crazy and you have to stay away from them. But I think we are just normal people who have got some issues that you have to do with it. But I don't think, I know, I don't think that that is represented in media very well. Apart from, in some TV shows like a, there was one maniac that it is, is to be represented really well. And so I think there's a scene where he, it goes up to someone who's whose voices have said, this is you're going to be your leader or something to save the world.

0 (16m 53s):
And then they go along with a delusion and then its, and then its sort of brought it back to reality. And I thought, I really related to that scene sort of exemplifies going through delusions and then coming back to reality. But other shows like shutter Island sort of have you seen that? I feel that as well, but yeah, I think it is a good film. Like it is an interesting film and it doesn't really represent schizophrenia sort of shows in as violent money. People who want to blow up cars and stuff and it just can't be reasonably. And I,

1 (17m 24s):
I think it's a Highland. The whole thing was that he was in psychosis the whole time. Yeah. I'm not technical to understand what exactly did they trick him at the end or was he in psychosis? I don't know whether or not, you know what I would say, is it difficult to work out?

0 (17m 39s):
Do you use it? It's a good film, but I don't. I think it does represent sort of schizophrenia as being violent because there's a lot of sort of, of violence that goes on. He's attacking people and ah, he's a close of a car and all that sort of a split point that the guy is like, you do it in my car and I'm really angry about that, but it is quite well.

1 (18m 6s):
Well, yeah, it's a good thing. I enjoyed it. But you know, I'm like skip the people with schizophrenia are more likely to be victims of violence that be the perpetrators of violence. Yeah. That, that statistically, that's just the fact because people with schizophrenia are more vulnerable, you know, like they are often they need someone to the guide them of everyday life, you know? So yeah. And, and, and the, and in the media, it's all about, I had some, some guy got killed his wife and their dog, and he has a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia. And, and that's all you hear like on, in the news, but you never had, you know, this is just normal people.

1 (18m 51s):
It's just a health condition. And you know, it was a lot of suffering that goes on and there's a lot of pressure and we just wanna live a normal life without, you know, being stigmatized in that way.

0 (19m 4s):
I would relate to that so much. I think I didn't even touch on that, but the media portrayal of schizophrenia is negative, very, very negative. And you do only hear about bad incidents like a one time and the police are talking to him about it. And it was sort of going on about how this guy who is on the road, killed this family and then got arrested for murder and then put it in an asylum. But there's like, you only hear the bad side, but I think at the same time, it is important to realize that there is sort of a very dark side of psychosis. If it all goes wrong and it can't be completely disruptive, but someone who is living with schizophrenia and dealing with the collusions and stuff, isn't the same as someone who is in complete mania and psychosis.

0 (19m 49s):
And I think it's important to recognize the difference between that.

1 (19m 54s):
Well, I mean, I think, you know, I think, you know, schizophrenia is a lifelong illness, so, you know, I do, I really hope that, you know, maybe you get your, your early twenties and your symptoms will subside. You know, I really hope that it's the case because

0 (20m 17s):
I mean,

1 (20m 19s):
It's different either, either I'm not a doctor, so I don't know it, but I mean, for me, I first became aware when it was about while I was in high school and I was about 24 and I'm 45 now. So I'm still a psych go through psychosis, but I dunno, we got, we got a, a M I just hope for the best really. So tell me what, what, when you were at home, what you like to do to calm your mind, so you to give you a pace, what you like to do at home, but like to coping strategies.

0 (20m 54s):
I think in terms of coping strategies, reading is really useful. I've gotten to book so far. So if I'm hearing voices or if, if I had felt like a lot of control over my internal monologue, then reading a book helps sort of get control of back over it. I can sort of be, it helps to bring peace and it's a really good coping strategy. And I think listening to music as well, I just spend a lot of the pages relaxing, listening to music. I think that is a great coping strategy. So sort of a relaxing and allowing sort of a bit of a sanity to come back into the equation. Okay.

1 (21m 33s):
Okay. And can I ask you, is there anything, but I haven't asked you that you would like to say on this platform?

0 (21m 40s):
I think the main thing is if, if you are a friend of someone with who's going through schizophrenia at the moment to just try your best to support them in any way you can. Cause it's is, it is hard losing friends when you go through schizophrenia and just being there to support them is better than just cutting them off. If you, if you care about them than do your best, even if they seem delusional or just go along with the delusions and talk to them and try and connect with them on an emotional level and talk about something saying that they enjoy maybe a TV show or something, because you can still, there's still a human.

0 (22m 25s):
I think that's important to recognize.

1 (22m 29s):
I think that is so important. And, and to support someone, you don't have to do anything special or, or you just, the name of that, it's just the beta. Do you know? Or just to listen to what we're going to say, you don't have to do or have any particular skills or anything. This is a support or somebody I can help. And I think we can wrap it up here or what I want to do. I usually do place some music. What sort of music do you like all of that crime get? You know,

2 (22m 59s):
There is a song about it in my mind is playing tricks on me. I think that's a great thing that caught my eye. I'll play royalty free music, but I'll probably pay some just to make it stop crying. But anyway, fantastic to speak with you. It will be a great pleasure. You know, your, your very candid, candid. I think I can sense that you're a break down, man. You know, you want, you want to say, you want to be as honest as possible, you know, talk about your experiences and you know, after the practice to speak, you know, close.

2 (23m 42s):
Yeah. It was great speaking to you. Great. All right.