1 (31s):
Hello and welcome to another episode of Interview I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I have the great pleasure of speaking with Bryan in South Africa. Welcome to the show. Why and how are you doing today?

2 (48s):
Thank you very much. Duncan I'm doing all right today. It's been a normal day, a normal Sunday so far, so everything is quite good. Thank you so much.

1 (57s):
Are you, are you affected by the COVID COVID-19 in South Africa?

2 (1m 4s):
I am affected, yes. My, my workplace did do a few cut-backs and everything. And even with, with, with my salary salary wise, my salary got cut. So it's, it's kind of hard paying my debt and And in all of those things. So, but, but for the, everything is fine.

1 (1m 26s):
Okay. Let's say you should do it. So I ask how, how your mental health journey began. So we might be going back to a few years ago, you talked about how it first appeared or how you reacted. Did you go to the hospital? You know, how did you get diagnosed? How sort of things, if you, if you'd like to talk about,

2 (1m 53s):
Yeah, my story actually starts way back in, in my childhood. I am currently 26 or so, so, but, but, but from childhood, I have a very vivid memories of all of my childhood, of her normal experiences and everything. So the earliest memory for me is I woke up inside of the ocean. I saw a beach in front of me, colorful umbrellas, everywhere, people playing in, in the ocean and things. And I looked at myself and I wondered, why am I so red? But that was in, in, in, in my home, in my home language.

2 (2m 33s):
So I asked myself, why am I so red? I walked along the beach. I saw a live court house. I went in, I saw a, a couple of having intercourse and everything went black. And that's when the, the memory stops. And then the first dreams I've had is a very weird dreams, like standing in front of the other two galaxies. I had to choose one of the two galaxies. I, I sold into the galaxies and I saw a planet with terrestrial creatures on, on it, and I wanted to go to it.

2 (3m 13s):
And I went to the one that was the most interesting. And then basically I woke up and, and my, my dreams are very vivid. I can dream into the future for sure. I, I, I experienced on whoops though. Like I can give you an example. I was in the third grade, I was about six, seven a about, I dreamed about a classroom. I'm going to school. See the kids, see the teacher in front of, you know, vivid colors, everything on the chalkboard on turning around. I see a go at the bank and I woke up and a few years later I transferred schools.

2 (3m 56s):
And my first day that exactly that exactly the same dream, like deja VU, everything in exact detail happened again. So And, and, and that, wasn't the first experience for me. And often after that, I started to, to, to become a weird kid, you know, like I'm, I'm one of the strange kids. I don't fit in anywhere. Like I played rugby. I was on the first team, but as well as I could fit in with the jocks, I could fit in with the email kids or their mental health. I didn't have a place where I fit in into society, you know?

2 (4m 40s):
So, so on my, on my genuine, trying to find myself, I've been, there's been a lot of twists and turns in, in that room and spiritual spiritually with the religion, my sexuality, everything, everything just, just started to go haywire. And that brings us up until about 2012, where the symptoms really started. That's when I started to get paranoid because people was like, they knew me, you know, they, they know everything about me, so I was starting to get aggressive, but I got a girlfriend.

2 (5m 20s):
I had a, at this stage, I was about 18 years old and she kind of helped me through it, but as well with some drug use here in the us and some marijuana smoking, everything just got more intense. And I don't know the exact moment when, when it snapped, when everybody started hearing my thoughts, that's when everything went into panic mode. That's when I was concentrating on not to think naughty thought, bad thoughts, extreme thought, you know, that I was very, very conscious on, on what I was thinking. And I couldn't control what I was thinking. If I see a person that, that might have the slightest flu, right.

2 (6m 5s):
And I will call them out on the floor in, in inside of my thoughts and the reactions, those people usually, ah, give me the, there is always a little small reaction that, that, that, that two years, the entire Ellucian, a hallucination, sorry, I'm just touching a bit. And it went on and on and on until things turned very sexual. That is when I completely lose my last, my mind from about 2013, til about 2015. When I, everybody, everybody movies or television, music, radio society, and my family, people around me, as soon as I turned my back, or if I go somewhere private or something, everybody's having sex.

2 (6m 54s):
It's like you, that is, is, is, is, is having the funky time, you know? And then as soon as the other, everybody stops, everybody's just like, I, how are you? And on the inside, I'm like, I don't know what to do in your role. Now. I know what you doing, you guys, so can we please stop? Or at least let me join in, you know, so it went on through a few years. Like the music music is very, very, very important in my life. Any genre, any language or any, I mean, like Anything, as long as it speaks to me on, on, on the, the level, you know, so music, TV TV's Oh, it used to revolve around me.

2 (7m 43s):
It's like I was in the moment, every character, side character, main character, female character, a character, male character. It was based on my life. Everything was based on my life. And that was about my life until 2014, 2015. That's when everything started to, to, to die down and everything started to go very calm and the voice has started being nice to me. I actually, so I was like, yeah, I can, I can live with this just for, for clarity. I haven't used mates until 2016.

2 (8m 26s):
So I was, I was without mates throughout my entire life until 2016. So, and everything was just very, very hectic, crazy. And the one day that made me snap was I did some drugs in the night before, and I didn't sleep well and everything just got to me, you know, and I snapped and I told my father, listen, I'm going to start killing people. If they don't start telling me the truth. And he was like, what truth? What are you, what are you talking about? I told them the people that can hear my thoughts are, why wouldn't you tell me?

2 (9m 7s):
You can hear my thoughts and everything, you know? And I just went on and on and on. And I was starting to get angry. I told him I was gonna about to kill everybody. I see, you know, it was, it was very, very scary. And then he, he called it a psychiatrist. He admitted to me. And from there, she, she, she put me on Solium and from there, the voice has got nicer. I got to a new girlfriend and she, excuse me, she actually took all the voices away. She gave me the blessing of no symptoms for about four years. And since the Corona hit, now we separated.

2 (9m 50s):
So I'm single again. I have nobody to, to keep my mind occupied. So everything is just to be turning back to normal. All the voices are starting again, the paranoia starting again. And but at least the fit of rage. It's, it's it's for, from happening. I am currently very happy in my life.

1 (10m 13s):
Okay. That's great, man. So, I mean, that's interesting. You said that your, your girlfriend took your symptoms away. I mean, do you know why that could be?

2 (10m 26s):
I thought about it and I thought it was, it was just that she kept my mind occupied a, a S let me try and explain it. Like every time I told her I'm starting to have symptoms, ah, she was with me in the chair, a rehabilitation center. I met her there. She was there for depression and, and all sorts of other personal reasons. And I was there for substance abuse, schizophrenia and muddled hallucinations. So we, we met in the, in the, in, in the center and we, we hit it off.

2 (11m 12s):
And from there, we just, we just built on our relationship. And every time I told her, listen, I'm starting to hear the voices. They, they're not nice to me at this moment then. And all she said, the whole time is stop thinking about it, pull yourself together and get through this. And every time it freaking work,

1 (11m 35s):
Because if someone says that you're not going to react well, or you, but when it's, your friend is different, right.

2 (11m 43s):
It's, it's, it's, it's different. It's definitely different. Cause I, I tried to tell myself every time she told me to calm down, get a hold of myself and everything. I was just like, okay, it's it's, it's it's time to calm down. Everything is all right. Nothing is happening. I can go on. So yeah.

1 (12m 3s):
Okay. So, so yeah, it is obviously when your girlfriend tells you a snap out of it, there is a level of trust that there's a level of love there. So it's easier for that for you to, to listen and to really believe in yourself. I think,

2 (12m 22s):
You know, in, in, in the first night I met her in the rehabilitation center, we were lounging on a couch watching TV and we was swapping war stories, you know, and I told her and I told her everybody can hear my thoughts. And I'm so paranoid. If somebody is going to do something one of these days, I'm so paranoid. And she told me in a calm voice, I can't hear your thoughts. And that was the moment I snapped. That was really the moment I, I pulled everything together and says, wow, this, this may be something real, you know, so something can happen from this.

2 (13m 4s):
Maybe I can get better if, if, if I'm constantly around her or do something about it makes this woman, my wife, you know? And so I was slowly in, in the progress trying to make him my wife. We will be engaged in everything until the crew and I hear it. And then we went our separate ways, but that's, that's a good thing.

1 (13m 27s):
Okay. Just want to quickly diverts into another area that is going to get up to you are talking about your dreams and you were having some predictive dreams. And did you have any spiritual beliefs which explain those dreams or how do you see that? How do you explain that?

2 (13m 49s):
I don't know what I can explain from a, those dreams. I explained what I had and that one memory about the beach. That's actually a memory. That's something I had before. I told everybody I knew before I started using drugs before the symptoms started and everything, I told everybody, I am reincarnated from another galaxy. So I did try and explain everybody like, listen, I, I have a supernatural power as I can travel through time as well because of this and this and this. And nobody believes me, but I know the truth.

2 (14m 30s):
I don't need anybody to, to believe me as long as, as, as I believe myself. And in the spiritual sense, I do believe I am God in a man's body. Okay. I have tried writing scriptures and my own Bible And and things like that. But every single year, it changes to something different. As soon as I learn something new in science or, or something like that. So excuse me. At the current moment, I believe is true to some sense, like a real, I'm sorry.

2 (15m 11s):
I hate it. When I started religions in all her religions or true to some extent, the old gods are aliens and aliens are God's and I believe I my soul is, it is one of them I'm just trapped in a human body. I just have to accept that. So, so basically I'm a man living on a planet and enjoying myself to my fullest extent,

1 (15m 42s):
You know, because of my own spiritual beliefs, you know, they allow it for what your saying as well. So, you know, I do believe that we're much more magnificent in the spirit world then when we are incarnate on earth and the human body, that is the human experience is here, that we are here to learn. We are here to experience life in the us and to it's something it's an education for us. And I think you did. Okay. I think that that's what, what is going on. Okay. So what would, you said your work in, what, how, how does your work, how, how, how is that going with your daughter diagnosed with ms?

1 (16m 31s):
So you dealing with a couple of diagnosis and how, how do you, how did you cope with that?

2 (16m 38s):
To be honest with my MS, I do need to inject myself every third day or every second day, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. I need to inject myself. So the, the little, my, my, my antibodies doesn't detect my, my, my thin sheets of brain covering. That's the word I lost the word now. So I'm trying to explain what, what, what what's happening inside my brain. But anyway, work was well until the symptoms started. And it was very, very, very hard for me to go to work by myself.

2 (17m 20s):
I am an autoclave technician, which means I maintain and service sterilizers in the theater's and <inaudible> of all the hospitals. So M it was very difficult to in the beginning, when my, when my symptoms really started showing, it was like, everybody is looking at me, mocking me. I don't know what I'm doing. Why am I even here? And, and that was a very, very hard for me. And I actually tried to kill myself. So I, I believe I succeeded in killing myself if you would like some details on how I, on how I tried it.

2 (18m 6s):
And when did this happen? And I think that it wasn't about 2013 or 2014, a that's when the peak of my, of my symptoms started with, with my paranoid schizophrenia. And I tried to kill myself in my core by rapping the SA the, the, the, the seatbelt around my neck, driving, driving tool about a, a a hundred Ks per hour. That's about 60 miles, I believe, and just slamming on the brakes. And I, I, I did do that. And when I came to, I was, I was still in my car.

2 (18m 46s):
So he said to you about around my neck music, playing, speaking, speaking tongues, the music was speaking tongues to me. And the few words that I could make out is how wonderful was the color. And that's when I went black, I came home. I was still, I was just out of my teams and I, and I was still living with my parents. And I came home. I asked my mother was white. It was everything again. Why aren't you telling me the truth? Why a while you hiding the facts from the why, why, why and why? And I locked myself in inside my room.

2 (19m 26s):
So often that everything went silent for a bit. And that's when we force forward until 2016, I got my meds. I got diagnosed and everything just started looking brighter.

1 (19m 43s):
Okay. So in the greenroom, you were just chatting and you said that your, your voice is we're going to be a bit crazy. What are you talk about that?

2 (19m 57s):
I liked to smoke marijuana. All right. And, and marijuana is a very intense, spiritual, religious experience for me. Every time I smoke it. So, so often I smoke it. It's like everything becomes alive and I can see messages, your messages in, in, in everything, besides the voices over overall, the background noises, like I have headphones on now, and I can hear it, a chat to outside of the outside of the, the headphones, you know, so, but, but, but they were very excited in, in, in speaking with you trying to, to tell the story I have in the best, in the best degree that I, that I can tell it's unfortunately I do have some speech impediments, so that's quite difficult getting my messages across, but that's all right.

2 (20m 56s):
I I'm, I'm living with, with this speech impediments now since 2012. So my early childhood years of, of my teen years at the end of my team has a I'm so sorry. I'm excuse me. You said that it was very, very, very difficult from, from 2012. I was very, very paranoid. It was, it was a terrible, I lost all my friends. I don't have any friends because I actually alienated to them because they, they were conspiring against me. They were planning on murdering me.

2 (21m 39s):
So I tried as fast as I could to alienate them because I was afraid to have my life I. I really tried to avoid conflict situations. And that one instance in 2014, 2016, it was very, very, very hard for me. Cause I don't know what, what people actually actually are because it's very scary. Sometimes the, our listeners can get so vivid that I can see and hear people talk about me that looks moving in synchronisation with the words that I'm hearing inside of my head.

2 (22m 21s):
So yeah, so, so, so it's quite difficult believing people sometimes when they tried to tell me stuff and I, I struggle really hard talking,

1 (22m 35s):
How did you feel, or do you feel that the support, the medical and therapeutic support that you get in your local area, how do you feel about that is a good enough? Are you game to support? Because I think probably not going to be good enough,

2 (22m 53s):
To be honest in South Africa, the, the mental health side of, of, of hospitals and healthcare. Thank you so much for the word I lost the word. Thank you so much. Yes. The mental health outside of health care in South Africa is a very, very, very underpowered it's M is really terrible. My, my, my doctor didn't actually diagnose me. She only gave me my Solium and told me this should help with the voices. That's all she told me.

2 (23m 34s):
I need to, I needed to do my own research on, on what do I actually have? How do I need, need to treat it and everything? And it turns out the medicine, ah, she, she gave me my, my mates. So is, is, is the correct medicines. She gave him, but she never diagnosed me. You know? So then they are very, very, I can't find it in a mess. Everything is just an image of a mess in this gun, in this country in general. So, but the health care side is also a bit nuts, so I'm okay.

1 (24m 14s):
Okay. Is there anything, you know, we're, we're sort of coming up to time now, so I'm just, wouldn't be anything else that you'd like to tell me, which we haven't covered.

2 (24m 27s):
I think I covered everything, but I was a bit this organized in telling my story.

1 (24m 34s):
Okay, cool. One last question. How did you feel about the stigma and have you been discriminated against? Because, because I'm really, you know, I really want to educate people, you know, show that, you know what, we are just normal people who are suffering and we want equal rights. You know, we don't want to be discriminated add how, how, how did you feel about that

2 (24m 59s):
With the health care? It's, it's a bit old school, as I can say. I'm, Riscal living in the olden days. All the doctors are all old, so they are quite the, they are already sit in in, in their ways, as I can say it like that. Cause they, they don't actually try to help you with anything to be honest. So, so they are, they're really just pathetic in my words. So let's say that. So that's my opinion on that. Yeah.

1 (25m 40s):
If I like, if I'm, what about like a friends and family in your workplace? Have you experienced, what's the 47 about your friends that you lost some friends. What about your workplace? Have you experienced any discrimination there?

2 (25m 58s):
Oh, no. Not at all. Not at all. Everybody is very supportive. They, they crack jokes sometimes. So it's fun. Unlike the, the skitzo guy at work. So they poke fun at me, but I don't, I don't take offense to it, so I don't take offense to it. I actually love it all on the one side they acknowledge me. So, yeah.

1 (26m 28s):
Okay, cool. Is it was really good and listening to you today, Ryan, I think, you know, I think you only 26, your journey, and I think you're going through, you've been through to the chronic phase, you know, so, you know, you, you, things can work out pretty well for you, you know, you know, and hopefully that you, you get a good sense of recovery. Ah, you know, it just, you just got to keep working on it, I think. But yeah. So that's a great thing. It's a story. What, what type of music do you live in?

3 (27m 4s):
But like I said, I like all sorts of genres. The only thing that stands out is some Viking metal and some,

1 (27m 16s):
Some, some, some normal to me

0 (27m 18s):
<inaudible>, <inaudible>, <inaudible>.