0 (2s):
<inaudible> and welcome to another episode of Interview with a schizophrenia today. My guest is Brian from a higher in the USA Hello Bryan, how you doing this weekend?

1 (48s):
I'm a very good appreciate the chance to come on and give my voice and lend it to the movement, to unstigmatized schizophrenia.

0 (1m 0s):
That's exactly what we want to do a wall about spreading the message that schizophrenia is not something to be afraid of its a genuine condition and the people who are diagnosed with it, you know, go for a lot of pain and suffering. So Brian tell me you the way that you were diagnosed about nine years ago. Tell me what happened before that, you know, what was the, what was the leading up to the diagnosis?

1 (1m 34s):
Well, for me you had kind of the disease kind of stalked me for a little bit until it decided to really show its face beginning about, about 10 years ago. And I kind of knew what was happening because by career-wise I am actually a psychologist. And so I had had lots of experience with a mental disease and even, even before getting my own diagnoses, I used to even use the term mental illness and I don't anymore.

1 (2m 21s):
I differentiate between mental disease and almost a non chronic illness that's that comes and goes to me, there is a very big difference in the way you have to look at it and treat it and realize that it's a permanent affliction. That's not just going to go away. And so the, the symptoms began to surface, like I said, about 10 years ago and I kind of had an idea of what was happening though. I had somewhat a hopeful desire that it wouldn't be that, but I have been too close to those who have the disease to not know exactly what was happening.

1 (3m 10s):
And then it really just went full steam almost immediately. And I had some of the most worst symptoms you could think of. And really I, I should have at the time been institutionalized, but I didn't. And I really think that's kind of what precipitated the disease, taking a strong as an effect on me that it did, which really destroyed my marriage and family and career at the time. And that's unfortunately been permanent like the disease itself.

1 (3m 56s):
And so I went through, I'm a barrage of symptoms, a large gamut of them to where it is. It pretty much makes it almost non specific form of schizophrenia because there's to many symptoms to narrow it down to just a paranoid or Schizoaffective. Mmm it's it's unfortunately the worst of the grab a bag that someone could have,

0 (4m 26s):
What, you know, going back a so 10 years ago, I think you worked at the psychologist, you, and you must have spoken to schizophrenia weeks and to all the people with mental health conditions, what, what are you think triggered your elders? Do you think you would just turn to a predisposition or, or, you know, do you think that might've being like a trigger or like some sort of events

1 (4m 52s):
It's, it's really difficult for us, for me specifically to pinpoint what I could think could have. I think it's number one, genetic, but as far as I know, there's not a single person in my family or the history going back that IO has any symptomology of having the disease, some bipolar and depression and certain people. Yes, but schizophrenia, no, not in any shape or form. My history of growing up is one of extreme pain suffering, trauma violence.

1 (5m 38s):
I'm just a whole, just a really terrible horror story. So you would almost think that back then it would have surfaced, but it, it didn't, it really, I'm, I'm really a survivor of what I went through and still going through. And so really when the disease decided to surface, I had been married for a couple of years and I had a child who was around a nine to 10. I had, you know, I was doing multiple things psychologically wise and working another job, publishing a book.

1 (6m 20s):
I'm also, I'm an ordained monk in the Buddhist tradition. And so I had, you know, many, many, many years of mental training and acuity as well as being a psychologist. So there was nothing in my lifestyle that would have been noted. I'm doing something that might've precipitated it coming to a genetic fruition. I just think, Hey, it decided this is going to rear its head. You know, when I'm around 40, 41 years of age, maybe a little bit before that, when it started its onset. And then that basically just led to a, it just blossoming as strongly as a woman and to, and then sooner or later I began finally taking some anti-psychotics to battle the symptoms.

1 (7m 11s):
And that, that was a horse show in itself, going through the various ones defined one that would work for me. I mean, those, you know, I, I was a very adamant anti-medication person being a psychologist and not a psychiatrist. Cause I had seen a lot of the damage that drug's did and then looked up the effects for taking them for myself and just realized how much of a Guinea pig I was going to be. And that was a whole horror story in itself, trying to find one that Well was somewhat working in.

1 (7m 51s):
And then I actually got off of them for a while. And then finally got back on to them again when I found one that I could order from overseas because of the cost involved in the us is just outrageously ridiculous for people trying to get help and get drugs with basic insurance.

0 (8m 12s):
Yeah. I think, you know, now that the medications kind of like a, a necessary evil, isn't it, when it's is something that we've got to take to, to be able to function. I mean, I swear in one year if I were medication and it was absolutely awful, so I'm never want to do that again. So I mean, I guess you can, you also, except that, you know, meditation isn't necessary and why it won't be the answer, but it's necessarily your brain.

1 (8m 46s):
And then like, like for myself, what, what I notice is if the medication just really takes the edge off, because the number of symptoms that I have are so unfortunately wide ranging that there's, it's the daily struggle to just get through the basic things because of issues with like anhedonia and abolition and allergy and, and various symptoms that, because the lack of motivation, inability to express yourself, not having an enjoyment and doing Anything, you know, how that affects you, trying to have a basic job.

1 (9m 34s):
Even the most simplest, even the most simplest of jobs can be everyday can be just an anxiety inducing horror show for someone who has not got the edge taken off with the medications, lowering the affects of the brain, that just information just floods in and aggravates you. And then it can cause like an emotional reaction in that of course can send you into psychotic episodes or disassociate this association in various other problems.

0 (10m 5s):
Okay. So let's talk about some of the symptoms, you know, you've talked about the negative symptoms affecting ability to do your job, and it's absolutely great, but I guess the schizophrenia is more, is more well known for the positive symptoms. And so what kind of have positive symptoms you have too, let's talk about that. So you have the lesions and paranoia and, or at least a nation's

1 (10m 32s):
Yeah. For, for me and now, you know, like 10 years later, it's definitely not as horrifically strong as it used to be when they first said in who was it? It was, I really cringe at how much I put my wife and child through, but I was, you know, I'm sick it. So it's not like it's, you know, something, you can just stop doing, you, you have a disease and the brain is malfunctioning and this is now formed and it's not like you're choosing, or one thing is delusions because they're terrifying.

1 (11m 17s):
The one, couple of them was seeing demons. And that really, that really terrify me usually in the evening and at night getting up to like use the restroom would be a horse show because I would have to, I would think that they were coming up from the, the basement do you know, to come after me. So I would, I would sometimes barricade myself in the restroom and, and wouldn't be able to come out till my wife come down and got me the feelings of things crawling in your brain, in on your skin.

1 (11m 58s):
And the bug thing is a lot of people call it for me. You know, it was like just every orifice had something crawling in it and actually in my skull. And unfortunately it was so bad that I actually tried to panning where I was going to drill a hole in my skull with a drill that I know I had. She came, you know, that when it stopped me before I cause too much damage. So things along those lines and then the unfortunate effect of a, the voices a, that was really problematic hearing things being said, of course, well, I had a kind of an elder, the wide range of them.

1 (12m 49s):
It wasn't just the negative ones. Like people saying are yelling, things that are wrong. Mmm. A hurtful way and such, but I would have here, like, what did you say? Oh, I didn't say anything. And I would just, you think that there was conversations going on and I would be confused as to who's talking to me. And so I was very disoriented, many times that way, not knowing conversations that I had or ones that I didn't have. And then another one, another one that was very problematic was it sounded like there was like a group of people having a conversation in the other room, or like a radio station on an old radio when you would go through the channels and it would kind of have that light noise sound.

1 (13m 38s):
I would hear that a lot of times, and that would cause problems going to it. And really, you know, now that's kind of the only one, I, I really have a long the lines of the, the audible audible purse. Great. Now, visually now there's, I'm a grab bag of them that happens. I've actually been able to okay. Transfer the inner landscape over to an external artistic one. And I've actually been able to create the artwork was that shows what I am seeing.

1 (14m 20s):
Luckily I have the ability to do that, and that's very cathartic for me to get that out of my system and kind of externalized the internal. So other people can see it and say, Oh, well, I have the same thing that I go through. I'm glad somebody else put it on like a foot, a photograph or a piece of artwork. The skin crawling things still gets to me a lot of times, I can't remember the something ptosis or something like that to where you feel like bugs are all over you. And then there's as many times a lot of problems speaking and getting out what I'm trying to say.

1 (15m 5s):
They sometimes call it like word salad or other times they call it like a word or a speech desert where you can communicate what you're saying. A and M a lot of times like Phantom feelings or smells or sensations. So there is a lot of that is still existing in my purview that I have to deal with on a daily basis. But locally, one of the,

0 (15m 35s):
You know, I was just going to say, you talk about your art and, you know, you obviously have quite a lot of severe symptoms, I would say. I mean, and obviously your medication, like you said, you at the edge off that Dee, do you have like coping methods to see in your mind to take you away away from external stimuli? Do you know to keep this, to keep you calm and to just take you into a better place? Do you have to do any coping exercises?

1 (16m 6s):
Oh, sure, sure. I have a, a, a large arsenal that I've created the first at first and foremost lifestyle is the, the, the biggest key one. I try to limit as much as I can being in areas that are overly stimulating, loud, lots of music, lots of noise, a lot of movement too much that can overwhelm my senses and just kind of set me S you know, you don't set the person off into a psychotic episode where you dissociate or your emotional reaction is through the roof, which is really a kind of flight or fight or flight reaction, a lot of mental drills of going through, like doing mindfulness of the body, of what I'm feeling, mindfulness of the emotions, of what I'm feeling, try to recognize to a mantra, a system of single-mindedly focusing on something like a repeated phrase that can reorient the mind and kind of get it back on the rails once it comes off.

1 (17m 20s):
And so there is a lot of techniques like that. Diaphragmatic breathing is very important, belly breathing as they call it. There's actual ways to where you can massage of the body in a certain pressure points on the body to help stimulate calming the nervous system down. So there is a large grab a bag that I've acquired over the years that well, I used in my counseling years ago, I now apply it to my own needs and situation as they arise. But unfortunately, sometimes it's, it's just a crap show when you just try to do damage control.

1 (18m 3s):
Sometimes the internal emotions are so strong. I can sometimes create artwork to cope with it. So I do a, what would that be? An art therapy too, kind of get the emotion in a cathartic sensor out of my system and make myself feel better of getting it onto the paper and kind of expelling it from myself. So there is, I also exercise routinely on a daily basis to help focus myself and get rid of maybe excess energy or agitation I might have. So there's a multitude ways that I do that using martial arts and such.

0 (18m 42s):
Yeah. So it was going to talk, you know, ask you about, you know, if we fast forward Tuesday, I mean, what, what did you think about the future? Are you optimistic about the future? What are your, what are your dreams for the rest of your life, or, I mean, how did you, how did you see that now?

1 (19m 1s):
Well, I usually try to live a very mindful on a day to day basis and not have too much ambition in my bag because I don't want to set myself up with any type of grandiose thinking that might be delusional. And so I'm very much second guessing myself many times as to what it is I want to accomplish, but right now, most of it's focused on just keeping my health the best I can and doing the job that I currently have the best I can, but trying to do it to where I don't set myself up for catastrophic failures in over extending myself, I'm doing a lot of artwork and, and an extensive amount of writing right now.

1 (19m 60s):
I'm, I'm actually writing a couple of books about the disease and to different ones, but it's on two different topics on the disease. And one is actually about people who have had the disease, but have accomplished great things in our society around the world. And so that's kind of an interesting study of others who have had it, who have suffered in many, have lost their lives to it because of suicidal ideation and such. So I kind of want to give voice to all of those in a kind of large format, not just one biography, but just everybody in general and say, look, even if have the disease you can accomplish great things.

1 (20m 50s):
It's not that disease. Doesn't just make who you are. It's your, who you are. Plus you have a disease. You, no, it's not the schizophrenia. Brian, it's Brian who has schizophrenia. He's also got all of these other things he's accomplished. I just, this year published my fifth book. So there was a lot that I'm creating, but at the same time, I have to be very weary of this. You can drop the next minute and I can have terrible symptomology. And I have to take a step back from doing anything in, just give myself as much care as I can, and just survive day to day.

1 (21m 30s):
I mean, getting out of bed can be a challenge sometimes for us. And I'm just glad to just do the simple things like that and not overextend myself too much. But I would say the desk kind of what I'm focused on doing is those large extent of items like that. Relationship wise, I have pretty much given myself over to just a very hermit, like celibate lifestyle and just not really intertwined myself with another emotionally, because for me, it's just a very, not the most secure sounding area as already, you know, I lost my wife.

1 (22m 15s):
And so I don't really want to put myself through that. And it's not a big deal for me at all. Really companionship is good, but when my mind's not working the best that it can, I really don't want to put someone else through that. And I know some people would say, well, you can have find someone who will love you for who you are, but that's, that's a nice aphorism to say. But the reality of it, it's a lot more complicated in people who are far less forgiving than others think they are, especially when it comes to mental diseases, as opposed to if your missing an arm or you're blind or your mute or something like that, that's a lot more acceptable for people.

1 (23m 2s):
But an invisible disease is not as much as accepted when it comes to interpersonal relationships. You consider yourself disabled. It was certainly in some regards Yeah, and it's one of the worst ones because it's not only manifest physically, but it manifests cognitively. And in our society, in, in the West, the way most people are viewed survival wise in our, in our culture is how you can be productive. Job-wise, you know, how much are you worth to the market? And Yeah, that's a despicable way to treat human beings, but unfortunately that's the way the market is geared and society is geared.

1 (23m 49s):
And I'm the greatest parts of society say to the opposite of that book, the ones who are behind the most of society, that's they're standard of measuring people. And so when you are disabled in a certain regards, and you accept the fact that you don't work to your full potential, like you use to when you were younger and everything was working, you know, all the 18 wheels were working on the rig, and now you're down to half the wheels. You have to be real about your situation and what you can accomplish and what you can do in, for me, giving myself that buffer zone of you could only do so much, don't push yourself.

1 (24m 33s):
That allows me to not put myself in situations of creating stress environment that can cause a relapse and a lot greater issues to manifest.

0 (24m 45s):
Okay. Yeah. This has been a fantastic interview and I want to wrap it up. I just want to ask you one last question before we do that, what you call that a disease. So what you fail, you know, what, what did you feel like schizophrenia? It is in, you know, what, what, how, how would you classify it? You've been a bit like it is just misfiring chemicals and the brain that you think that it is. Okay.

1 (25m 11s):
Well, I've become a very, a big advocate as to what the disease actually is. And not only does it literally affect the physical form of the brain, but it has a detrimental effect cognitively on the ability to comprehend and Sarah tone and levels. And so it causes positive and negative manifestations of symptoms that involve, you know, that bio electrical system of the brain, the way it physically works, the chemical process. So unfortunately the brain really comes after you won about every gambit of how the brain and the mind works.

1 (25m 56s):
And so it's an all encompassing disease that can also physically deteriorate the person. 'cause when you look at things like depression and various symptoms, it can actually physically manifest and cause literal pain in the person registered as pain. So it's, it's way above just psychosomatic. It's a literal physical ailment that manifests physically as well as psychologically and emotionally.

0 (26m 26s):
Okay, got it. Yeah. So So yeah. Okay. Fine. Did you see it as a, you know, in, in a, in a sense of neurological disorder, you know, like a physical, the physical illness? Yeah. I mean, that was definitely, definitely evidence that supports that for sure. Okay. So carry on.

1 (26m 49s):
Well, you know, it, it just, you know, not only does it, it do all those, you know, it does all those things that I've mentioned, but then it affects something that is considered more abstract, which is a perception. And that's where in, it can not get as much empathy from people because you know, all, why don't you just stop acting up? Why didn't you just, you know, realize what's going on. But you know, those things come from a physical properties of the brain that the, the mind is in cased within. So even if you've got a great driver and the seat of a car, if the car is like a jalopy that can barely hardly do anything and wrecks all the time, it doesn't matter if you've got a great race car driver behind the seat.

1 (27m 39s):
And like, I know you've mentioned another times about spirituality is very important. It is, it is for me to, and so I view the human essence to be a, a vehicle that can perfect itself on many levels, but we do have to deal with what the vessel is we have now. And I think really that's one thing we need to work on having not only compassion for everybody else, but 100% first and foremost for ourselves and a love ourselves for all of the faults and all the positive things we have.

0 (28m 17s):
Yeah, absolutely. I think you've raised some very important points there, you know, if not just, you know, it it's even for the people that you meet, you had been diagnosed, the installer, you know, we'd only have fairies of what we experience, whether you can say, well, you know, I think it's great. It is because of what I've experienced, both. And perhaps more importantly, it's a, how often are people with schizophrenia and that, and that perhaps is one of the most important aspects that, that needs to be, it needs to be changed. It's almost, it's almost a bit of a pretty big, that is to say uncles, schizophrenia, there's so much fear wrapped up in that word and what it means.

0 (28m 60s):
And so, yeah, I mean, that's that we've got a long way to go, but, you know, I, I, I think if you keep talking about it, they are able to show them that, you know, it we're parts of the influence and we we've quite a lot to say, and we want to make it worse. I think we could do it because industry has shot at it. And that, you know, in a small group of people who were determined to the fact that the ignorance with the stigma will provide for them. So yeah, Brian, that's fantastic. Yeah. I'm really happy with that, you know, so thanks. Thanks very much. I will.

0 (29m 40s):
I will. It's called that

2 (29m 42s):
Details of the exact description. If you want to get in to talk to your friends about any of this is very much Brian. Thank you very much for having me in lending, you know, a human voice to the movement. I greatly appreciate it. Your work is extremely valuable and I thank you for doing it as much as you can. I hope you're. I hope your site in your group go away exponentially. Thank you.

2 (30m 16s):
<inaudible>.