1 (37s):
I Andrew Andrews from Virginia in the USA are effective diagnosis. I's 34. So welcome, Andrew, how are you doing today?

2 (49s):
I'm doing fantastic. How are you?

1 (51s):
Yeah, I'm doing pretty well as, yeah, I'm doing pretty well. I got a site hangover actually, but I'm doing fine. So, Andrew, what I wanna ask you, you know, this, this question is always the same. If you would like to give us a history of your mental health journey, you know, you can start from when you want, you know, it's, it's good to hear how the, how the, the mental health diagnosis came about. What were the triggers and what happened? I think it gives, gives our listeners a real insight.

2 (1m 25s):
So I had a pretty normal development. I, I have great parents who continue to support me, even when I was a kid. I, I had good parents growing up. They, they might have been a little bit on the neglectful side, but I mean, overall, I mean, I I'm super blessed to have them in my life. Yeah. I, I, I was born with an umbilical cord around my neck and I was putting an incubator for a time. And I think that that had some kind of influence on my development. I remember being very sad, a lot as a kid and never crying.

2 (2m 8s):
And as I grew older, I, I had a pretty normal development. I had friends and things like that, but I think I got infected with toxo. Plasmosis could have been a fever, but I got a very high fever diseases. Yes. Yeah. And if, if you have schizophrenia or S Schizoaffective disorder, you might wanna look into, or even bipolar, you might wanna look into toxic plasmosis and the research regarding that, because I think it's, it's very, it's a, it's a factor that, that might influence your development.

1 (2m 48s):
Yeah.

2 (2m 49s):
I've heard about it actually. So, yeah, so I was about 11 when I got this infection and my cat started having problems with her, her bowels, and she would just poop all over the place. And then I got sick. And after this, I, I kind of changed after I had this, this sickness. I, I went back from my default when I was really young, to being sad a lot. I kind of would entertain myself with sadness.

2 (3m 29s):
So yeah. I just think of dark themes. And when I was 13, I had this humiliating thing happen where like my porn on the computer, I had a sister who, who took the porn and like shared it with people at school. And I found that like super embarrassing. That's horrible. Yeah. Yeah. It was, it was pretty, it was pretty, pretty bad, but I don't know. I think I had unusual tastes probably as a result of this infection, which made it more embarrassing. And, you know, I, I just kind of retreated in my head and I was very sad for a long time.

2 (4m 15s):
Never spoke of it. Never shared any of my, my problems with anyone. And when I was 22, it, it GA came to be too much. I was, I was initially diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, which I think is more along the lines of what's going on with me. But yeah. So I was, I was in a really bad way. I was, I remember sharing with my psychiatrist, like all my problems that I had never unloaded for like 10 years, 12 years. And it was weird because he said that I had disorganized thinking, like I wasn't speaking in a coherent sentences, but the way I remember it, like I was speaking coherently, it was just like, my, my reading was that it was so sad, like the nature that he had, some defense mechanism where he couldn't comprehend it.

2 (5m 14s):
And he said, I was talking word salads when I was not, you know, so yeah. I, I don't like to get into the nitty gritty details of like the facets of the sadness or whatever, you know, a lot of, I, I think it's, it's really what, what I, I discovered when I was 22 or 23, it, it was in 2011. I had, I stopped taking my medications for like six months. And I, I became like, I was eating, I was eating pasta.

2 (5m 59s):
So I was eating ravioli every day for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And I just started, my imagination, went just over an overdrive. And I wrote this story called baby bar, like three days it's available on Amazon, if you want to pick it up. But it's baby bar by Andrew Frazier. I wrote that in three days. And it, it's a really interesting story. Like it's, it's, it's about the virtue of IDC and war. It's actually very prescient to the, to today because it's like a war between the Soviet union and the allied powers, but it's, it's a comical story.

2 (6m 39s):
It's it's much like catch 22. But after that I got hospitalized and I was put on whisper all, but I, I didn't sleep. I broke the world record for sleep deprivation. It was something like 14 days by my estimation. I can't verify that nobody was checking up on it. I'm not in the Guinness book, but yeah, I, I, I suffered for that. It, it took me about a month and a half to recover. And when I got outta the hospital, I really didn't have the patients to like tie my shoes. So, I mean, I had really negative impact and, and I wasn't getting anything done.

2 (7m 24s):
I was failing in school for many years. I got a job as a cart pusher at Walmart. And I, I remember just how blessed I was to have that job, you know, and so thankful for it. And in 2015, I fell in love with this woman. Like the, the second I saw her, I, I just fell in love with her. I had a girlfriend at the time and I, she left the work and I, kids do not like I was so disappointed that I hadn't told her how I felt that I started throwing up my medications every day.

2 (8m 7s):
And I didn't sleep for about six days that, that time. And I was still showing up to work and I was blacking out on the sales floor, like singing show tunes and stuff. And so I, I, I eventually quit my job because I, I couldn't handle it anymore. And I mean, they, the, my manures and stuff were, were very understanding. And, and I went back to school. I actually, during this in 2015, I was diagnosed with bipolar. So it, it kind of evolved.

2 (8m 47s):
And that's when I really took seriously cutting out gluten for my diet. And I went to school and I took chemistry two, and I did really well in the course. I got an, a, I got a 98 on the final exam, and this I think was attributed to cutting out gluten and dairy. I was eating a, a low carb diet and I was doing really well on it. And then I, I took programming course a little while later. I, I think next semester, the semester after that, and I did really well again.

2 (9m 32s):
And then I took one more semester and I just, I had stopped taking my medications once again. And I, I, I dropped out, I just stopped going to class. I was working on the game full time. I had picked up the game because I felt like everything, like, like I had failed at everything. And so I just wanted to fail at one thing and not do what my parents wanted me to do. Just, just work on this one thing for the rest of my life. And I thought I would fail at it, you know, at first. And yeah, it, it it's come a long way.

2 (10m 16s):
And five years, I remember after about a year and a half of coding, I came up with this engine called the centric, which was this way of increasing the map size from 200,000 units to, to like a three de like astronomical numbers. And then, yeah, I, I worked on that for, for about three years. And then I recently last year started a new project, a new game engine called the double cast engine, which is far more powerful and it's more efficient it's in every way better.

1 (11m 1s):
So game mention is, is like a tool to build a game on top of that. Isn't it in terms of 3d graphic effects and

2 (11m 11s):
Yeah. That sort of thing. It's, it's the game mentions actually, the term is kind of confusing because it's used recursively. It can mean like a game editor. Now they use the term editor for like, I making this in unity, but the game engine is, is the core logic. Every game has its own game engine. Yeah. It, if you can understand it that way, and the game engine I develop, the double cast engine is, is really a lot like no man sky technology. So it's called the double cast engine, cuz it's cast to a double. And, and so you have astronomical.

1 (11m 49s):
How, how did you go about designing a game engine? What, first of all, what language were you working with?

2 (11m 55s):
I, I worked PR primarily in C sharp. I did a little bit of C plus plus as well when I was making projects in unreal. But yeah, it's, it's primarily C sharp, but really this game gay mention can be done in any gay engine. You can imagine it's, it's got three components to it, the Oracle physics engine, the double cast engine in the origin V2 logic. So there's a lot of basically

1 (12m 29s):
Your simulating, a real world under computer, which is why you need a physics engine. I would understand. And then the other engines, I guess, would be things like IO and I dunno, design of the, of the graphics or something.

2 (12m 46s):
Yeah. Well the, the physics engine is really for Newtonian interactions and a lot of these 3d space Sims, they don't have that. They don't have 3d interactions in the, in the game. So they, they have modified physics or something like that. So really in the game demo, it shows me shooting a soccer ball, like with lasers, the idea of this recent project was to make like a rocket league in outer space with spaceships and yeah, it involved that well at first it it's, it's pretty easy because the physics engine is inbuilt.

2 (13m 28s):
If you're not making like a massive world, one of these like double cast engines, like no man sky kind of things, it's very easy. But once you have like this other way of doing it, which is like observer centric model, you have to adjust the physics for that. And it's very, it's very difficult and complicated is

1 (13m 52s):
Quite mathematical

2 (13m 54s):
Ye yes. Yeah. Yeah. Because especially the double cast engine

1 (13m 58s):
In, in my experience of computer programming in terms of industry, it's more logic, it's less mathematical, but I would understand that games programming is probably more mathematical in terms of algorithms and that sort of thing is, I mean, would, would you say about that?

2 (14m 21s):
Yeah. It's an interplay of both logic and mathematics. So really I just, I just would stick on a problem and think of like, is there some way to do it and I'll come up with crazy ideas, right? Like, like things that would, I, I don't think would ever work. And then I like say, well, what if it could work? Like how would I go about doing it? And then I come up with like crazy ideas of how it would work. Like the, the trade lanes in particular are, are very mathematical.

2 (15m 6s):
So basically like if, if you have like a vector three and unity, like you can do a normalized magnitude thing, but in a double it's a different data type and you have to make those methods yourself. And the way that they, they interact from float to double, like when to cast is really important to determine like the accuracy of the trade lanes. So like, if you want trade lanes that can go on forever, like 12, 20 million units or something like that, like you, you really have to,

1 (15m 41s):
So is this to do with being like, say 64 bit and 32 bit?

2 (15m 46s):
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So 64 bits are much bigger numbers and that allows you to make a, a, a map size that's much, much greater than you normally would otherwise. And another thing about,

1 (15m 59s):
So I, I think like, you know, I also have hobbies, like this podcast is one of my hobbies and it's, it helps me cope with the condition. Yeah. So I would imagine your game does, is that, do you find that's a good coping mechanism, something to focus on?

2 (16m 17s):
Yeah. It's like the best thing that's ever happened to me, like really in terms of just having something to do. But I, I mean, I would say that, that it wouldn't have been possible. Had I not cut out gluten and dairy for my diet for as long as I had that really was, was like jet fuel to my brain. Like I remember when I, when I cut out gluten and dairy for a year and a half, I remember thinking to my myself, like, when's the last time I was depressed. Like when was the last time I had a suicidal thought or anything like that, which was prior to that, like very kind of normal circumstance for me, it would be like an everyday thing.

2 (17m 4s):
And yeah. So, so it had a profound impact. It was, I say it's more important than the medications yeah. Is to go off gluten and dairy for me.

1 (17m 16s):
Well, you know, you know, I think nutrition is important. So I've had experience with plant-based eating and, and that, I think, so that is no dairy and no meat, but, you know, I think, I think, you know, perhaps it is, it is determined to your body type. Yeah. You know, I think you find what works for you. I would say that because, because some people say, oh, what just eating meat. And I, I enjoy the taste of meat and I sometimes eat it, but I gen I generally feel that plant-based works for my body type, my digestive system.

1 (18m 2s):
Yeah. And it does make a difference, even though I, I, and I do struggle with it because there is quite a domination of meat, eating culture, where I live. And it is, it is difficult to, to, to, to just to do your own thing at times. But yeah, nutrition definitely pays a big part in, in one way. It keeps your body healthy and also it can affect the clarity of your mind as well. So

2 (18m 36s):
For sure you eat beyond burgers.

1 (18m 38s):
I do eat beyond burgers. I actually, I eat beyond mince. I make bona with beyond mince, which is, I find it. I find it's the Tassies plant-based mint. I've tried.

2 (18m 51s):
That's great. Yeah. They're, they're delicious.

1 (18m 56s):
They are. Yeah.

2 (18m 58s):
Yeah. I I'm surprised how close to an actual burger it actually is.

1 (19m 4s):
Yeah. I think like I can cook a really good vegan burger in my kitchen. And, but, but the problem is most of the takeaways that are vegans sell vegan burgers and they're pretty gross. So I don't tend to buy them because I know that I can cook a pretty good vegan burger at home. Yeah. You know, so, and obviously it's gonna be, it's gonna be cheaper and fresher and all that business, but yeah. I, I tend, I tend to cook them at home. I, you know, I'll have, I'll have like a burger once a week or something, but I, I won't buy a burger from a takeaway because they're never as good.

1 (19m 47s):
They're always a bit soggy and just don't taste as good. And look, the look of it grows to be honest.

2 (19m 53s):
Yeah. And they're gluten free, so

1 (19m 57s):
Yeah. Yeah. I don't, I don't practice gluten free, to be honest with you. I, I do eat wheat products. I think the main thing for me is just to reduce the dairy and meat.

2 (20m 11s):
Yeah.

1 (20m 11s):
That's, that's kind of what I do.

2 (20m 14s):
Cool.

1 (20m 17s):
So how you feeling now, Andrew? So you've got the game. Well, how things now

2 (20m 22s):
I ate a pizza a few days ago. I just don't know what compelled me to do it self sabotage or something like that. And about three days ago, I, I ate a whole Domino's pizza and I, I, within 30, 40 minutes, I just started acting up. You know, I was, I was really kind of hectic. And now I'm kind of recovering from that. It's been, it's been like two or three days since I've had the pizza. And so like, I I'm making my bed and cleaning up on that. But as far as programming goes, I think I still need a little bit longer. I'm I'm currently working on procedural networks for the trade lanes.

2 (21m 5s):
Yeah. So that they populate themselves on, on build or on play

1 (21m 12s):
Dynamically updated. And

2 (21m 14s):
Yeah, they, they, they update at, at the start method and, and so I want to output a, a text file that has the position. So it's the same for every game, but I want the first one to be randomized. So it populates in itself. And then I save the information and, and

1 (21m 36s):
I, something like that, it sounds like a lot of problem solving, which is good.

2 (21m 41s):
Yeah. Yeah.

1 (21m 42s):
Like, I, I guess I would imagine the way my mind works is like, I think of what I want to do and then slowly it will solve itself in the background. Do you know what I mean?

2 (21m 55s):
Yeah, absolutely. Like, I'll go to sleep thinking about a problem and come up with a solution the next morning. Yeah. Or something like that. Just the fact that you're thinking about it all the time means you come, come up with some kind of solution. And yeah. A lot of the times I figure out things when I'm going for a walk. So I'll, I'll just be not paying attention to nature or anything. I know this is probably not, not very Buddhist or anything like that, but I, I fixate on the problem and then I go Eureka, that's how you solve it. And I come back. And so really it's, it's, it's a lot, lot of time where I'm just thinking about how to solve problems, like for a long period of time.

1 (22m 41s):
Did you, did, did you find that your psychosis was, was an element or problem? So problem solving in that as well, dealing with the psychosis and you're thinking, okay, I need to do this, or I need to do that.

2 (22m 57s):
Yeah. I mean, certainly at least for me cutting out the gluten was a big part of that puzzle. So I just noticed that I was eating pasta, ravioli, pasta, macaroni, and cheese. Every time I had one of these problems, one time it was a cheese steak that I ate. So, I mean, I, I learned this lesson, then I learned it over and over again, you know, because it, it really does take a moment where I'm just like, okay, I ate this food and I'm having a reaction. So now, like, I, I've gotta commit to cutting this out, you know, for the rest of my life or for a period of time.

2 (23m 42s):
Yeah. And it, that, that was probably the, the, the biggest part of the puzzle for me also taking medications are important.

1 (23m 55s):
Yeah. I think when you get older, you do realize, okay, I actually will take the medication because yeah. It does. It does help. And, and at the end of the day, I think like when I was younger, I used to skip my meds, you know, I would store them up in a little bag and I'd have tons and tons of meds and I would be having psychotic breakdowns. But you know, obviously now I'm older, I think. Yeah. That's why you were having psychotic breakdowns because you weren't taking any bloody meds.

2 (24m 22s):
Yeah. Yeah. The meds definitely do help as much as it pains me to admit it because I don't, I don't, I mean, I just feel like, you know, it's kind of lame when I take my meds. I don't ever look forward to taking my meds. I'm just like, I gotta get this deed done. You know, it's not, it's not something I ever look forward to. And, you know, I, I do have it as a goal of mine, a persistent goal to be stable off meds. So I think that would mean more to me than all the money in the world. Yeah.

1 (25m 1s):
I think I, I, I also would like, I have, I have a diminishing dream that one day I will be able to exist without meds, but that today it's not, it's not today and it's not next year, but maybe one day, you know, it's, it is kind of like a dream to, because, because I think that regular people don't understand that the medication do affect us in very severe ways physically, and that is a blessing to be medication free. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, Andrew, I think we almost gonna wrap up, I just wanna ask, if anything else you wanna talk about, which we haven't talked about already.

2 (25m 41s):
I think that covers it. Yeah. Thank you so much for this podcast. I really like how you're giving a voice to people who really normally are overlooked. So I, I applaud you for this, this podcast.

1 (25m 53s):
Thank you, Andrew. I won't ask you, give me a genre of music that you like, because I'm gonna add it on to star. And the end of this, of this episode,

2 (26m 3s):
I really like ALJ. So I don't know what, what kind of, what, what

1 (26m 9s):
Is electronic

2 (26m 10s):
That is like, I guess it's kind of like electronic alt rock or something like that. Okay. Yeah.

1 (26m 19s):
So Andrew, you're always welcome to come back for another episode. You've got my email and we can, you know, we can always talk about, we can talk more, you know, I am, I am trying to get people to come back because I think, I think people wish to hear, you know, how things are going, that sort of thing. So you're very welcome. And it's absolute pleasure to talk with you. And it's, it was fun talking about computer science, which is one of my passions as well.

3 (26m 45s):
Yeah. I hope I'm not boring. Your listen.

1 (26m 46s):
No, no, no, no. Yeah. I just find it interesting to

3 (27m 2s):
You're. You're welcome. Thank you.