1 (31s):
Hello and welcome to another episode of interview with the schizophrenia. I'm your host Dom conserver singer. And today I have the great pleasure of having Eric from new Orleans and Louisiana. He's 37 years old and he's got a schizophrenia, schizophrenia diagnosis, I believe. So. Welcome to the show. How you doing?

0 (54s):
Thank you. Hi, I'm doing well. How are you doing?

1 (57s):
Yeah, I'm doing pretty well. Yeah, not too bad. It's it's a Friday, you know, it's always a good day, so,

0 (1m 5s):
Oh yeah,

1 (1m 8s):
Exactly man. Exactly. Fridays is. Yeah. Okay. So what I want to ask Eric is if you'd like to tell us how your mental health journey began, how, what were your first symptoms big? You, what was your, how were you diagnosed? How did you get into the mental health system? Did you go to the hospital? You know, what, if you could tell us about that, that would be really great.

0 (1m 40s):
Oh, sure. Yeah. My symptoms started off as when I was a kid, actually I used to see things more visually hallucinations and auditory when I was a kid, but I, I used to see really horrific things I thought were ghosts, maybe, you know, and it started off when I was about maybe seven or eight years old and I didn't know what to think of it. And I didn't really talk about it that much because I didn't know what was going on. And then as I got older, hurricane Katrina hit new Orleans and I was living here at the time.

0 (2m 23s):
You know, when it hit, I was here and I was impacted. I ended up evacuating and getting out and everything, but I got stuck in a part that flooded and it wasn't as bad as it could have been, but that kind of added some post-traumatic stress. And after that event, the hallucinations and the voices and everything were like intensified at times thousand.

1 (2m 48s):
So what, so that's pretty scary, man. So when you were a young kid, you saw, you saw you had visual hallucinations.

0 (2m 56s):
Oh yeah. Wow. Creepy things, very things.

1 (3m 1s):
So how did you deal with at the time? W what about, did you, I mean, how did you tell your parents about it?

0 (3m 8s):
I told him what I saw and I don't really know if like how, like, what their take on it was. I think maybe they thought I was like having like a bad dream or something, or maybe it was just because I watched a lot of scary movies. I'm not sure, but a lot of, you know, they, they didn't really know how to take it. I don't.

1 (3m 31s):
So when you look back now, you get better. I mean, you know, because people do say they see ghosts. I mean, how do you know what's not a ghost, you know, as we could say, and it was a, it was a Holy summation. How did how'd you know that?

0 (3m 50s):
Well, because as I got into my twenties, I went to a doctor and I told him how I was seeing and hearing things. And I got put on Abilify. And when I'm on my medication, it's stops like breathing pretty much. But when I take it, sometimes it's so happened. So I kind of wonder about that, you know?

1 (4m 13s):
Yeah. I mean, you know, the medication in only does so much, you know? Yeah.

0 (4m 22s):
And I'm a paranoid schizophrenic. So I get really, I get these delusions of people trying to kill me all the time. And I get paranoid about a lot of things. Like I'm afraid of the dark. I'm afraid of not really necessarily the dark, I'm afraid of what could be in the dark. When I wake up in the middle of the night, throughout the night, I actually hear a whole bunch of voices and I can't make out male or female, but it's like a, like a whirlwind of voices. And sometimes it's really loud and sometimes it's just kinda normal volume, like I'm talking now, but it's just, it's intense sometimes. And I just want it to go away.

0 (5m 3s):
Cause I'm trying to sleep.

1 (5m 6s):
Do you get a chance to talk about your voices? I mean, do you have a partner you can talk about, or do you talk to your friends? You got a chance to talk about it?

0 (5m 15s):
No, not really much

1 (5m 19s):
Because I also have voices and I'm not just, and it's like a major part of my life. I can't talk about it. It's just ridiculous. You know?

0 (5m 29s):
It is. Yeah. It's like, you don't want to frighten people and you don't want them to see you in a different light, but at the same time, it's something that, you know, you deal with and you deal with like 24 hours a day, seven days a week, it's stuck.

1 (5m 43s):
It's like, I, you know, it's like a part of my identity and yours, a part of your identity, you know, it's a part of who we are, you know? So I think, yeah, I just, because it's part of the normal human, right. Because schizophrenia is, it's been around for quite a few. I think it was, I think the quote, like coined the phrase on a hundred years ago or something, but it's a part of the normal human experience. Isn't it? It's, it's our dance in the extremes. Do you know what I mean?

0 (6m 18s):
So we should,

1 (6m 19s):
We should be able to talk about it. I think, you know.

0 (6m 23s):
Yeah. I believe that like the stigma of schizophrenia though, is like everybody, especially in movies, the way they portray, you know, every serial killers and schizophrenia, his dog is talking to him, telling him to murder people. You know what I mean? So automatically people who are schizophrenia or serial killers, all of us are, and we're evil and we're bad people. And it's like

1 (6m 47s):
That, that is, it's like in the news, if there's like, like some crazy guy killed his wife and his and his kid to go and yeah. And he had a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia and that's like a major factor in your new story, you know? It's like, it's like, okay, it's cause the phrenia side, that's why he did that. What is low that's? You know, that's not, he was morally, he had, he had some serious issues with his moral compass. I think it's because that's the most schizophrenia because it's just, you know, like, I think in America that's like a, that's like 2 million or something schizophrenia six in America or something like that.

1 (7m 30s):
There's a hell of a lot more than a million. I think you pop your population's like a hundred and 160 million or something,

0 (7m 40s):
But I'm not even sure. Yeah.

1 (7m 44s):
It's 118 million, maybe 1% of the population. So you said it's pretty much more than a million schizophrenia in America. So most of them are just behaving themselves. They're not getting in trouble, you know?

0 (8m 1s):
Yeah. And then you've got the people who were undiagnosed, you know,

1 (8m 6s):
Definitely, definitely that there is, I think there's a hell of a lot of people who've got undiagnosed mental illness and then some of them were schizophrenia as well. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So let me, why also want to ask you, have you had an, the psychotic delusions?

0 (8m 27s):
Oh yes. All the time. Actually. Almost every day.

1 (8m 32s):
Okay. Cause this can be quite scary. I mean, how do you feel when your, okay. So what about a psychotic break? How do you feel when, when you lose touch with reality and you're in the midst of sort of psychosis, how does that feel for you?

0 (8m 47s):
It feels like, well, I'm a claustrophobic person too, and it feels like I'm in a, like I'm in a room and the walls are closing in on and I'm starting to not be able to breathe. And then like, I actually start to sweat and I feel like I could pass out and you know, just faint and my heart starts racing. Cause it, it becomes completely physical at that point. You know, it's very scary. It's horrifying. I've actually gone into my room before and like barricaded myself in my room by putting my dresser in front of my door. Cause my door doesn't lock because I was just so terrified. I was just my delusions and I laid in bed and I was just like, you know, praying.

0 (9m 30s):
I was like, God, help me, God help me, God help me. And like just asking for any type of help, really to relieve what was going on. And then eventually it passes, but it's at the time it's so real. And it's so vivid. I don't know how to handle it most of the time.

1 (9m 47s):
Yeah. It's going to be very scary. That definitely my experience is the same as gay is that it's terrifying. It can be absolutely terrifying. And, and it's yeah, it's, it's not a nice experience at all. You mentioned God. Have you had any sort of, have you found any spirituality or religion to help you, you know, with, with your symptoms I'm going to have, have you turned to that sort of,

0 (10m 22s):
Not at all actually. No. I believe in God, but I was raised a Pentecostal and I got out of the church and you know, I, I still, I guess I believe in God, but I'm not a very spiritual person, but when things get really bad for me, I'm one of those types of people who start asking God for help. Yeah.

1 (10m 43s):
Yeah. Because you know the I exactly, because when I have been terrified, I will ask you to, you know, you asked for the highest authority, you know, like you don't want any middleman, you want God to sort it out.

0 (10m 57s):
Yeah. And I'm hoping he's real. And that he's hearing me because usually whenever I do that, it kind of simmers down a little bit and it kind of is ease. And I don't know if it's just because I'm in a way sort of praying and talking to God or if it just kind of happens that way, you know, I can't really tell most of the time.

1 (11m 18s):
Okay, cool. So, so tell me, do you work, Eric?

0 (11m 21s):
I actually don't work. I haven't worked in about 20 years.

1 (11m 26s):
Okay. Okay. So your on disability benefits and,

0 (11m 32s):
Well, I love that question that you asked me that I'm actually going through that right now with a social security, trying to get my disability. I got a letter in the mail saying that I'm eligible and I'm just waiting on more paperwork. So it's going to go through for me after 20 something years. So I'm like, okay,

1 (11m 47s):
Wow. 'cause, you know, in the UK, I've ha I've, you know, I've spoken to a few Americans about it and it's a slightly different process. I've heard that people getting lawyers in America to get them their social security benefits, you know, they, they will hire a lawyer so they can get so they can win that case. And in the Britain, in the UK, it's quite a big thing because obviously a lot of people with schizophrenia or on benefits, I mean, I spent a long time at benefits and, and it's quite stressful experience because you've got to essentially prove that your, that you're ill and you're, and you're not wandering off to work.

1 (12m 31s):
And it's quite, you know, that's kind of what they, they, they test you on and it's quite, can be quite a stressful thing to go through. Okay. Fine. What I will ask you, what about, so tell me, I want to know more about, you know, life as a schizophrenia, you know, it's not easy. And tell me, how did your, when you were first, when you, you had, when you said, what age you're 20, you got prescribed Abilify. So I guess that was your first med B. How did your friends react?

0 (13m 10s):
I actually didn't tell any of my friends. I didn't tell really anybody except for, you know, my family, because I was afraid of how people would react, but you know, being well, they did. And I ended up losing all of my friends because of it. Yeah. I have no friends now really,

1 (13m 33s):
You know, I think you can, it's worth trying to reconnect because as you get older, people do change. But yeah. I mean, I, you know, like for me, I've got a weird one is where I have a persona, which is normal, which I have to be when I'm with friends, you know, I am a, I am a loner. I mean, to be honest, I am, I am quite loner about where if I am with friends, I will act, I don't, I don't talk about my illness kind of like as if it doesn't exist sort of thing.

0 (14m 10s):
Yeah. So,

1 (14m 12s):
Yeah. So, so it's like when I'm by myself, you know, I'm looking at mental health forum in the South and I'm exploring outside of my life because it's such a major part of my life. But obviously with regular folks, I don't feel they can handle it, but they don't want to handle it. So like, you kind of agree with me is you just kind of display a persona, which is normal.

0 (14m 39s):
Yeah. I do. Like I kind of, I kind of show people what they want to see basically, you know,

1 (14m 45s):
I know exactly what you mean. Okay. Fine. Let me ask you, so how did your family react when your family a lot more stable?

0 (14m 55s):
Oh, they were very supportive. They're very, very supportive. My mom, she's great. You know, I could talk to her about my episodes and stuff and what I see and everything now. And you know, my sister's been a big help, you know, they're really understanding. So that, that helps out a lot.

1 (15m 12s):
Yeah. Family is definitely, you know, I mean, a lot of people said our family are very supportive and I feel that's a great thing because we need that. We need a support network of some sort I'm usually most get, most parents are usually pretty good.

0 (15m 29s):
Yeah. And I live, yeah. I live at home with my family because back in 2017, I was actually married for eight years to my husband and my husband. Yeah. He passed away in 2017 and I kind of lost my mind a little bit more. So I moved back with my family.

1 (15m 52s):
Okay. I'm so sorry to hear that, man. Was he, was he older than you was? It was, it was an unknown. I, I thought of like a heartbreaking illness.

0 (16m 5s):
Drug overdose. Okay. Yeah.

1 (16m 12s):
Okay. Okay. Let me ask you then what do you believe schizophrenia is? Okay.

0 (16m 23s):
I wish I knew. I really do because my family, it runs in my family on my mom's side. Apparently my grandfather had it, my mom's dad, his grandfather had it and it's like, I, I, it seems to have passed down, but at the same time, I question, I don't really, I don't, I'm not sure if I believe in ghosts and stuff like that, but once it comes, it always comes back to that for me, because there are certain things that happen and then I can see them here that maybe my mom or my sister will see your experience. Do you know what I mean?

1 (17m 0s):
You, it might be the case that something which you're experiencing might be well.

0 (17m 7s):
Yeah. Yeah. And that kind of creeps me out on an even bigger level.

1 (17m 14s):
Well, it would be, yeah. Given what you've told me about what you've been seeing and stuff. I mean, I think I figured it was kind of scary, but yeah. I mean, you know, the way I say it, it's like it's part of human experience, but that's an extreme part, you know? So,

0 (17m 35s):
Well, I feel like maybe like we were as schizophrenia chosen to see and hear things that we do seek in here, but I was going to think something like that, but yeah,

1 (17m 46s):
Because what, 1% of the population has to do it. So it just so happens that with this generation. Yeah.

0 (17m 55s):
It's hard to maintain relationships. Definitely big time too, with this, like it's so tough.

1 (18m 3s):
Oh yeah. Definitely. I mean, like I say, I spend most of my time alone really. And you know, it's just, it's difficult. Like, like we're talking about it's difficult to make, to be your genuine self.

0 (18m 18s):
Yeah. It is. It's really hard

1 (18m 22s):
To know who that, that person, where it is and you meet, you need to have that time where you could just be okay. Yeah. I want to talk about my symptoms. I want to, I want to talk about what I'm going for because otherwise, you know, it'd be unbearable. Hey, let me ask you, Eric, have you experienced any stigma or discrimination?

0 (18m 54s):
Only by friends. I used to have,

1 (18m 58s):
Yeah. You felt I let you down.

0 (18m 60s):
Yeah. Like I think that they became like to the point to where they felt like I was being well, like we say, here in America, I was being too much because you know, they would tell me to talk to them about it and I would talk to them about it. And then they would go behind my back and talk to each other about me, you know, calling me a freak and a weirdo and stuff like that. And now I have something seriously wrong with me and I have issues and stuff like that. And they got back to me and I was just like, okay, that's not a friend, a friend doesn't do that.

1 (19m 34s):
You know? Yeah. I, I think, I think people think I'm fake. I think that's what the thing is with me. I think they just don't believe me or something. Yeah. I mean, it's just, it's just kind of, I dunno, but I mean, and even when, I mean I'm in, by once I had some problems with the police and I said, yeah, you know, I've got schizophrenia diagnosis and they're like, so that's quite, it's quite a big thing in someone's life. Isn't it kind of affects how your, how you, how are you? What's the word interacting with the world, you know, because part of it, okay, let me say, how do you feel?

1 (20m 26s):
I kind of know what you're going to say, but how do you feel like the general public understand schizophrenia? I mean, what, what are your feelings on now?

0 (20m 37s):
Like how they interpret it?

1 (20m 39s):
Yeah. So like, like, just like, just like, say, say, just say you go on a taxi and the taxi driver said, so man, has you think all man, just terrible symptoms of skits? How do you know what I mean? I'd say, how would he, I was somebody like that.

0 (21m 1s):
Oh, I think that they would really be freaked out and probably like kicked me out of a taxi.

1 (21m 8s):
You know, it's not right. I think, you know, I think we, we, my, me and you and everybody else gets when we've got a genuine condition. And I think it's important to people to understand that it's not easy.

0 (21m 21s):
No, it's definitely not.

1 (21m 25s):
Yeah. It's not easy. It's one of the hardest things you can go through and what makes it, what makes it hard is, is that it's really difficult to get that support.

0 (21m 38s):
Yeah. My husband, when he, when he was alive, you know, I used to talk to him about my hallucinations and stuff like that. And he never wanted to hear it because it really did freak him out. And I understand that because it's really, really kind of scary stuff sometimes, you know? And I don't like, I don't, Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead.

1 (22m 3s):
Oh, what I was going to say is that my brother, I don't talk to them about schizophrenia and you know, I'm, I'm, I'm in my forties and so pretty much my whole life. I talk to them about my illness. That's just not, it's just not in the conversation. Yeah.

0 (22m 21s):
So yeah,

1 (22m 24s):
I could kind of understand that.

0 (22m 26s):
Yup. And one thing that I've seen a lot recently is I've been seeing this since 2007. It's always, it looks like a woman and she stands in the corner of any room that I'm in facing the wall. And she's covered in like this gray hood with like this weird old dress and she's covered in vines and leaves. And she just stands there. Like a piece of furniture, never talks, never turns around, but I've been seeing her since 2007. And she's just like there all the time. That's pretty terrifying, man. Yeah. I think it's a, which personally I really do.

1 (23m 10s):
Yeah. Because I mean, to be honest with you, I think it's, I think it's quite rare for people to have visual heavy installations. Like it's, like you say, maybe it's more common when you're much younger, but into adulthood. I think it's probably quite rare.

0 (23m 29s):
Yeah. Most, most I've heard was people who are in adult, like me usually audio hallucinations more than anything.

1 (23m 42s):
Okay. So do you take nicotine? It's kind of like a schizophrenia and nicotine is kind of go hand in hand.

0 (23m 50s):
Oh yeah. I smoke way too much.

1 (23m 56s):
Okay. Fine. I think, you know, I think we can wrap it up here. Why, why would I ask you Eric? Okay. Actually one last question is, is there anything you would like to say we don't have an OSS G just on this platform? We, anything you'd like to say?

0 (24m 14s):
Yeah. I would just like to say that people who live with schizophrenia, I think are the most condemned people in the world. Sometimes we have a huge stigma over us because of our diagnosis. And it's not fair for us to live with that and not be able to talk about it to people. And, you know, generally, because the way we feel about it and everything it's feels like it closes us off, it isolates us and it makes it worse in my opinion, you know? So I just think that the stigma of it really needs to just kind of, we need to try to fight that stigma and show people that we're not all these serial killer monster movies, you know, movie monsters and stuff like that.

0 (24m 54s):
You know, we're normal people too. We just have happened to have those.

1 (24m 59s):
Yeah. I completely agree with you. And I think it's hard enough to cope with the, the distinct symptoms themselves, without having to cope with the authorization and discrimination from society, which can be changed through awareness and education. And shouldn't be there in a modern society, you know? Okay. You know, we've got, we've got to deal with the hallucinations and delusions and all that, but just, there's nothing wrong with blood being coined to a schizophrenia person. I think it's, you know, that should be happening these days.

0 (25m 34s):
No, my message is if you see a skinny frantic person, give him a hug.

1 (25m 42s):
Exactly. Okay. Eric, is there any particular genre of music that you prefer because what I'll do, I'll tack it onto the empty shelves.

0 (25m 52s):
Oh yeah. I love, well, I love kind of like that screaming metal music. There's this artist named poppy that I like, I don't know if you've heard.

1 (26m 2s):
No, I haven't. I will try and find something of that ilk and put on the end. So obviously being Patriot to speak if you're Eric, you know, I completely agree if your message out there about baskets phrenia and the stigma. I think it's so important and we've got to keep fighting and to get our message across and just, yeah, it was to serve sides.

2 (26m 30s):
Yeah, it was <inaudible>. Thank you for interviewing me.

2 (26m 42s):
<inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.