1 (34s):
To another episode of Interview with a schizophrenic today, I have Christine with me from New Jersey America. She has to be 20 free and she was diagnosed with schizophrenia a couple of years ago. And she had multiple diagnoses. How did Christina welcome to the church? Or how are you? I'm fine. I'm doing well. How are you doing?

2 (1m 7s):
I'm doing

1 (1m 9s):
Good. So usually I started the show by asking to guest how it all started. So Christine how, how did your mental health journey starts? You would talk about schizophrenia in 2018. Tell me about that. What happened with that?

2 (1m 30s):
Okay. So let me think. I, I, my symptoms actually started when I was very young and I wanna say, like I was around a six years old when I had my first suicidal ideation. So I was very young when my mental health began to decline and a, I would, I would commonly from that age up until I was a late teenager, I'd be very depressed, you know, lethargic, anxious. I'm it didn't really develop into a full-blown schizophrenia until I, I would like to say around 18. Yeah, it was, it was a bit of a journey because it started out with just depression, simple depression.

2 (2m 15s):
And then I began to hear voices. They began to have delusions as young as six.

1 (2m 21s):
Okay. That's, you know, that's kind of like an unusual, isn't it to have that such an early age.

2 (2m 29s):
It is, it's usually people don't develop schizophrenia and so they're in their twenties. So it was very unusual from, for someone like me, me, me, me, me, me like very commonly and have delusions that my parents about my friends. And it was almost every day, I'd be bombarded with these, like subluminal messaging from my, for my own brain. You know,

1 (2m 49s):
You know what I was talking about this before, but, but you know, if they, you know, there's differing ideas of what causes severe mental illness, but, you know, there is a, there is a case for just being predisposition because the statistics, you know, the one in 100 patient people got schizophrenia that it stays pretty much constant. Right? So that, that, that does that, that was back up the predisposition ferry. Did you know what I mean? Rather than, you know, cause some people say you go for a trauma, so maybe the trauma triggers it, but you know, you know, there's, you know, if the statistics say the same, it's kind of, that kind of saves, you know, there's like a pre this position, if you know what I mean.

2 (3m 39s):
Yeah. I do. I mean, there's a lot of theories behind why schizophrenia shows up. And one of the really common theories is like you said, it's a predisposition, a like a genetic factor. Almost like if you, if you have family history of certain things and that's when you're going to develop it, I do have a mental illness in my family, but no one else has schizophrenia. I was the first one to develop something that severe and that, that are impactful in my life.

1 (4m 9s):
Okay. So, so your only 23, your big, but you've started early. So that's okay. That's great because you sound quite, you sound, what's the word quite low. Louie said, you know, you, you sound, you sound fine. Whereas, you know, w for a regular person that he was 23 and has schizophrenia, they might be in the chronic phase. Are you, are you in the chronic phase on it or not?

2 (4m 43s):
I think the reason why I sound so lucid and I sound so with it is because of my medicine easily because I take a lot of pills, a lot of pills and it's, they help me stay cognitively there. When I was younger, I struggled a lot with like schoolwork and all that stuff because of the district, the, the, the story of station you get from schizophrenia, and it got better as time went on. And as soon as I got on meds, it almost got a, a, a a hundred percent better. Like I don't hallucinate anymore. I don't have delusions. I don't have ideas of reference. I'm very with it.

1 (5m 24s):
I actually think I saw on your profile on the net. Well, you know that when I was researching me that you, you take a little bit, do you take a lot of medication? Don't you?

2 (5m 34s):
I do. I take, I think around 11 to 12.

1 (5m 37s):
Okay. That's yeah. That's quite unusual to go in as if you're here.

2 (5m 42s):
It is. It's an incredible amount of medicine. And I think it also is because I have co-morbidities as well as schizophrenia. I have the ADHD. I have the obvious depression. My schizophrenia is actually Schizoaffective bipolar type. So, and I get the bipolar aspects of bipolar illness as well with the schizophrenia.

1 (6m 6s):
So how did those medications affect you?

2 (6m 9s):
They, they, they helped me greatly, and I honestly could not be the way I am right now without them. I mean, I'm working, I'm working at a very stressful job. Mmm. I'm living life or with friends and family. And I'm trying to get myself out there and be active in my community and stuff, not with this virus going around, obviously, but I try my best to live a very functional life. And these meds make that possible.

1 (6m 36s):
Do you agree with your psychiatrist prescribing you the amount of medication

2 (6m 43s):
I was at first, very hesitant because I was, I was always a person growing up saying, Oh, I don't want to take pills. I don't want to take pills. I don't want to ever take pills. And that's what made me resistant to getting treatment so young. I hit all my symptoms from everybody. So no one would diagnose me. No one would treat me because I was afraid of having to take medicine. But once I, once I got diagnosed with schizophrenia, it kind of became a necessity to get on the pills because I was, it's just, it's so cognitively upsetting it's. So it's a different world having the brain of a schizophrenia. Okay.

1 (7m 18s):
So we're you have this amazing.

2 (7m 21s):
I w I was actually here in the same thing. When I, before I was diagnosed, I had, I had voices, a lot of voices. I also had visuals, but the, the visuals we're kind of rare, but that would occur in the morning. Usually I would have to be,

1 (7m 35s):
I have to work after the visuals work.

2 (7m 38s):
Okay. So I would wake up in the morning and I would have the shadow people that looked like shadow's, but there are shaped like people, and they'd be standing over me doing something like pointing at me or just staring at me. And then it had no ice. They had no face, they had no structure, but it looked like shadow people that were like, I don't know, like when I woke up and I would see it and I'd be like, I'd be like, Ugh, people are watching me again. It would, it would think it would make me think that I was under scrutiny. Like it was constantly being observed Oh it was terrifying. I hated it. I hated waking up and seeing these shadow people. And then, and then currently, while I was seeing the shadow people that he was hearing voices saying, kill, kill yourself, kill yourself.

2 (8m 24s):
Or just other random jumbled up nonsense. Does it make any sense to me? It's just a voice talking to me.

1 (8m 32s):
You know, when I was, I got, I first became Hello when I was about 25.

2 (8m 40s):
Yeah.

1 (8m 41s):
But what I'm saying is when I, when I was younger in my twenties, my hallucinations, they ceased it, but it was, it was recently I'm 45 now, but it was about 10 years ago when I started again, quite severely to say, you know, and when you're young and strong, you know, that's good, but you just got to be careful when you get older as well. Cause what happened to me? I think, but I guess there's no, you know, obviously it's different than would be different for everybody. I think so.

2 (9m 17s):
Yeah. I think the resurgence of, of symptoms is usually due to the medication, stopping, stopping its actions on you is usually when you buy it, as they say every nine years, your body cycles out the medicine that you take. That means if you start up a new PIL, a new regiment, as opposed to the old one, that's what he said to me. My psychiatrist tells me, she says that eventually your body gets used to the substance you're taking, and then you could have a resurgence of symptoms. So I'm always, I'm always wary of if, if I'm hallucinating or, or if I'm having a delusion, whether or not it's New or it's old, or, you know, okay.

1 (9m 55s):
Never heard of before, you know, 'cause yeah, my, my psychiatrist, you know, it's different, you know, I am I supposed to be, and maybe the medical, medical advancements, you know, medical is, medicine is more advanced than America that in Britain, but I'm not on my psychologist and never said that to me, 'cause, I, I definitely have motives that, you know, getting youth to the medication and, and how did we search and so symptoms. So that is, that is kind of interesting. Yeah okay.

2 (10m 36s):
It, it doesn't happen to everybody. Some people are able to take a one pill for their entire lives and be okay. They think that schizophrenia are notably more resistant to that. Like our brain works around the chemicals that we put in our body and they set up a set ourselves up for failure basically. Cause the brain wants to be diseased. They wants to have that, that, because that's just how we're wired, you know, from birth or whenever we are wired to have this, draw it to a mental illness. Okay.

1 (11m 6s):
See, Christine you told me earlier, you actually worked in a psychiatric nurse. I do. Yes. So that gives you a, quite a unique perspective in your day job. So why don't you tell us a little bit about, you know,

2 (11m 21s):
Okay, so I've worked on a children's ward for mentally ill children. Yeah. It's in a way it's in a psychiatric hospital, in New Jersey. It's a very, it's, it's a nice place to be because it's from compared to the psych wards I've been on as a patient. It's a very vibrant, it's very friendly. It's very warm. The staff are great. Cause I always think about my times when I was in a psychiatric ward, you know, when I was younger and I think of it as a very negative experience. So I try to make it a positive for the kids by being friendly, helpful. Cause a lot of these kids or young and they are getting started on these medications that are very detrimental.

2 (12m 1s):
So you want to be able to take care of them, help them understand what's happening with their brains and their bodies, a, you know, stuff like that.

1 (12m 10s):
You know? And so how did you know when you, when you were a private for the job, how did that work? If you having schizophrenia and these various conditions? I mean, did you face discrimination? I mean, what, what was that like?

2 (12m 26s):
And I don't know if I have faced discrimination. I did not bring it up on my interview. I kept it very simple. Like I am a nurse I'm trained classically as a nurse. I just want to help people. So like psychiatry as my forte, I didn't say why it was my forte because it's, it's my, it's my focus in life because I am mentally ill myself, but I just, I kind of kept it out of the interview. I did not bring it up at work. I keep it to myself. Just so no one knows. I think maybe one of the nurse knows. I think I told her because I was taking this the same pill is one of her patients and I'm like, Oh, this pill makes you thirsty. So we're going to have to give her a water. And that led to Hyde, you know that, and I was like, well, because I take it.

2 (13m 11s):
So it was like, it w you should of seen kind of like the face, you get the response you get from revealing, something like that. It was lithium and lithium was known to make you thirsty. So I said, Yeah lithium makes you thirsty. We're going to have to get through to a lot of water, like a water bottle or something. And she was like, how did you know that? And I said, well, I take it. And she's like, Oh, okay. Yeah. Who never was brought up again? I don't think I've ever faced discrimination.

1 (13m 39s):
Okay. But you, but you were thinking about that when you hear me, if you had mentioned it. Yeah.

2 (13m 44s):
Oh, Oh yeah. Oh, I would say, I was thinking about like, what would it, what was going to happen if I said this? And so I said it and it was okay. And she seemed to be fine with it. Like if people don't always ask that everyone's curious, especially nurses, we just wanna know why you take it just for your health regions. Not, not really feeling like, you know, Oh, this person's like a mentally ill, a crazy person. You know what I mean?

1 (14m 8s):
Okay. So how about your friends and family? How did I? I mean, obviously you've had an illness from a young age, so, but how did they treat you? Did you, did you notice them treat you any differently because of, because of your schizophrenia diagnosis?

2 (14m 28s):
I did. I had a long-term boyfriend at the time who a, when I was diagnosed, who left me almost instantly So he said, he said he was done and I'm like, all right, I guess that's it. And he was like, yeah, I can't be with you. Cause you do to crazy. And that was like, OK. But my other mom, all my friends and family have been very supportive. They've been understanding of my hallucinations. I'm just standing of my, my paranoia. They've been very supportive. It's just that one person was enough to upset me over my diagnosis. And that's when I told him myself, I will keep it to myself unless it, the time calls and I need to reveal it.

1 (15m 13s):
Yeah. I think I'm. And so what about this school as well? When you're in a school

2 (15m 22s):
At school? I got judged because specifically in college, because I was sectioned, I was, I guess, Baker acted. I wanna say my, my junior year. Yeah. I'm a junior year of college and everyone knew because I was missing for about a week and a half and everyone assumed the worst. And the hard part was telling my professors that like, Oh, it's because I was in the hospital and I really don't want to tell you why, but like I have, I had, I had a crisis that I needed to be addressed. And so it is that the peers, I did see me differently.

2 (16m 6s):
The, as they saw me getting led out into an ambulance at my therapist office, and they were like, watching it happen this year, it was right between class changes. So yeah, it was, it was a little upsetting. Cause I knew everyone would treat me differently once they saw me again and they did treat me differently. They did judge me and they did a question me and all that other stuff. Okay.

1 (16m 35s):
Yeah. He said, that is definitely what I find to be quite a difficult aspects of I'm having a schizophrenia because you can't, I mean, you kind of, you do, you know, like any severe illness, you do need support and it's always difficult with schizophrenia. You are double guessing yourself because you're second guessing yourself because you of anything, if I could tell the truth, this past session is going to get a Friday. I'm just not speaking to me. Right. When really you're just, everybody needs a kind word and I've been to support you. Okay.

1 (17m 18s):
So that's a tough, that's tough. So yeah. So you had, you had that at least in nations. Did you want to speak about the delusions? Is that something that you want to share it?

2 (17m 30s):
Yeah. Sure not a common delusion. I had a as a child while I was very young, I was very young that my parents were asked to get me not in the standard. They're out to get me in trouble as parents we'll do it. It was more like, Oh, there going to cut me up and see me to the neighbors type of delusion. It, it, it was, it was the weirdest solution I ever had and it was persistent. It lasted for about a year. I was afraid of my parents in every aspect. And they had a note. The parents are great. My parents are great people. They, and they've done nothing wrong to me. I mean, we all make mistakes and stuff, but they've been excellent. They've been ultimately supportive and very, and very loving and kind about everything.

2 (18m 13s):
But at that young age, my delusion was that they were gonna, they were trying to make me eat a lot and then they were going to kill me. And then we're going to feed me to the neighbor's. So I refused, I refuse to eat and I would often starve myself because it was so afraid of that.

1 (18m 30s):
You know, I think when you're young and your parents such a big figure in your life, sorry, I reckon if that makes sense here, you won't have delusions about your parents'. You know, when, when, when I was the first became, you know, I used to think my parents trying to poison me, you know, I remember one semi some dinner and it was wrapped up in foil and that's the first time I'd seen that. And I fought, I just got poisoned in that and I didn't need it. And afterwards I feel really guilty or they made me a nice meal and I was like being a, you know, things are stupid about it, but yeah, that's just, that's just part of, part of it is isn't it, you know? Yeah. So it's a while.

1 (19m 10s):
What are the delusions have you come from? Are you okay?

2 (19m 13s):
I'm a lot of delusions of persecution. So for example, I would think that everyone's talking about me, everyone's reading my thoughts. Everyone's thinking that I'm, I'm, I'm crazy. Even though this is before I had the definition of crazy really set out before I was diagnosed, this was when I was really young. And I would often think that people are reading my thoughts. So I would change my thought pattern around, try to get, try to fool them. And that they looked at me funny. That means they caught me changing my thoughts.

1 (19m 46s):
I know you mean, okay, fine. And you know, because yeah, I, I delete the collisions with schizophrenia, quite tough because obviously your second guessing your mind, you know, you can't trust your mind, come here, which is, which can be very scary. And that was going to say it is what you think. Mmm. What do you think is schizophrenia is what are you? You know what I do you think it is a physical, a brain disorder or something else? Okay.

2 (20m 23s):
I think it's well for what I know, schizophrenia is a, is a physiological condition due to high levels of dopamine and the brain. So dopamine, when you have too much of it, it actually erodes. You're a brain matter. It will actually a shrink your brain. And every time you have a psychotic, a Episode it even more and more and more So my, my thoughts are schizophrenia is definitely a physiological condition. You can see it on MRI scans. You can see the, the shrunk and frontal lobe, how tiny it gets and how wrinkled and deformed it can become because of that constant exposure to dopamine.

1 (21m 13s):
Right? So if that's the case, why is that not a blood test or like a physical, a medical test to diagnose it? Okay.

2 (21m 27s):
From my understanding, you can diagnose it with an MRI scan, a you can easily see the brain destruction in someone's skull. After a long term, along amount of a long, a long time of a constant delusions and hallucinations, you can actually see the decay. And that's why people with schizophrenia, you are also at a high risk for Alzheimer's and dementia, because as you lose that brain matter, your brain ages is, you know, it's destructive.

1 (21m 60s):
But, but, but your talking with your nurse hat on, on here, I want you to tell him, I want you to tell me what you think would be your patient hat on

2 (22m 12s):
Patient hat. Okay. Actually, I don't know, because I had looked at it. I look at things very medically mechanically. That's just how my brain functions as a patient. I see taking my medicine as the best defense against repetitive, a psych psychosis. If I keep taking my meds, I'm going to stay nice and sane and I'm not going to lose my brain matter. And I'm going to stay young and functioning I'm as a patient. I see. I, it kind of do wish they had blood tests for schizophrenia.

2 (22m 52s):
I'm not sure what they would check for me because I don't know what the Jen, the, the markers would be for something like that. Cause you have to know what you are looking for when you take a blood test. But I do know MRIs. Like they, they, they scanned my head and they saw a shrinkage in the frontal lobe. So they were like, yeah, you definitely have some sort of function as a functionary issue and your brain. Okay.

1 (23m 17s):
Hmm. Yeah, because I do, you know, you're the first person who has explained the medical effects of schizophrenia on the brain. And that is interesting. And I think I've heard about it before, but the, I mean, I kind of have my own fairies, but I guess, I guess that's what you do. You do, you, do you have your own theories about what the illness is and what, you know, what causes your least of Asians And because you need to rationalize it. Right.

2 (23m 55s):
Okay. Yeah. I, I seek to rationalize why it happens and my brain is already very medical. So I was, I was like, Oh yeah, this is totally what's happening to me, but it can be, it could be any number of things. They really don't know what causes schizophrenia. They really aren't sure yet. Like, I, I I've read many papers from different viewpoints and a, some people think it's trauma-based to others think it's the chemical base, but just the dopamine action. So that people think is glutamate, which is a completely like a completely different neuro transmitter in the brain. And that is what the newer drugs are aimed to treat the glutamate path, that pathway, as opposed to the dopamine pathway.

2 (24m 39s):
And it all depends on each person. It could be a number of reasons why a schizophrenia exists. It can be different for every individual who has it.

1 (24m 50s):
Okay, fine. So that's fantastic. I think, you know, your, your, your working, your coping, you have a good handle on it. What are your, what did you do out of work when you want to relax yourself? Relax. You have your mind. I know you talked, I know you do some art. What's the one you'd want to tell him, tell me about that.

2 (25m 10s):
OK. I'm a photographer. So when I'm not working as a nurse, I, I use my camera and like get some extra cash. And I also create art and I shoot weddings events, stuff like that. But my main focus is portraits. So I try to express my feelings and thoughts and my mind is through portraits. Yeah.

1 (25m 31s):
Okay. And does that help you?

2 (25m 34s):
It helps a lot. It's very therapeutic. It's one way to relax myself. I feel much more at ease when I'm taking pictures. It's, it's a world of very comfortable in yeah. It's, it's, it's very helpful for me.

1 (25m 51s):
Yeah. You know, I D I do exactly the same. I, I like, I love taking protocols as well, you know it, and so I'll take the photographs, I'll put them in my computer, edit 'em and then share them. And like you say, it is very therapeutic. That's great.

2 (26m 6s):
It, it is so therapeutic and it makes me feel great with this, this virus that's going around. I haven't been able to shoot because everyone's kind of self quarantining. So I I'm, I feel like I'm going a little stir-crazy. This is when the mental illness comes out. Like there isn't any, anything preoccupied in my mind with

1 (26m 25s):
A new role. So

2 (26m 27s):
I am a gamer. Yes, I am. I am proud of that fact. Cause I've been gaming ever since I was a kid.

1 (26m 38s):
It does it help? Does it help?

2 (26m 40s):
It? It most certainly does a game with sister who is also

1 (26m 44s):
Another big gamer. She was four years younger than mine. And actually last night when we're playing Minecraft, we're building in Minecraft. If you're not, that's fantastic. Christine, let's, let's go over up here. I'm you've been absolutely a pleasure to speak with very illuminating. You know, you know, I, I think you spoke to as a, as a sufferer and also as a professional, you know, which is, which gives you an interesting perspective and you know, it it's, you know, a couple people I've interviewed have I asked if they can come back. So, you know, that offer is opened to you as well.

1 (27m 26s):
Once, once we got a few more episodes done, definitely look at bringing people back to talk forever on how are they doing, you know, from the reflections. So, yeah. So I would love that. I would love to come back and you've been great to talk to talk to you. And I actually love getting the information out there and talking, talking about what goes on in my head, but I think, I think that that's, you know, that's just got to talk more and that was fantastic. So thank you very much. And we will end the show on some electronic music with Christine expressed a, a light for me.

1 (28m 10s):
Thank you so much.

0 (28m 29s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>.