1 (31s):
Hello, welcome to another interview with the schizophrenia. And today I have the great pleasure to have you met with me. Matt is fetch four years old and he's from Nebraska in the United States and has a diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia. So welcome to the show, Matt, how are you doing today? I'm good. How's it going? Yeah, I'm doing good as well, man. It's, it's a bit of a nervous and excitement about doing my first video interview, but yeah, I think it should be fun. It should be keen to see how it is. So how's the COVID situation with you?

2 (1m 13s):
You know, it's, it's, it's been a, it's been a year. I, I work over at one of the hospitals and it's been chaotic, but it's, it's it, I, I've been very fortunate in that the hospital has been really great about how they've been handling things and what's been going on. It's been, it's been a very stressful time for a lot of people. And I think that's just kind of exacerbate a lot of people's awareness of their health in general. So it's not just necessarily Covid because everyone's kind of like, okay, well, is this, this is this, that, and it's, you know, everyone's kind of high strong, okay.

1 (1m 57s):
It's not exactly normal time, but what's quite remarkable is how people just kind of adjusted to it. You know, it wasn't too, there wasn't a big pack. I mean, there was kind of like panic buying, I guess, but not people just got on with it, I guess most people I think,

2 (2m 14s):
Yeah. There's, there's been, there's been a lot of people who've been taking it seriously. There's, there's a lot of people in my area who haven't been taking it as seriously as they probably should have been. But I, I think that's kind of ubiquitous throughout the world. Well, most of the world, it's just, it's unfortunate that the people who don't take it seriously tend to spread it to people who haven't, but there's, there are certain things that are unavoidable, but there are a lot of things that I think we could have as a country done better, but that's getting completely two rails on that. It's been very interesting. More so just with being schizophrenia, just in the sense that it, it seems like some of the things that have been happening, if he was part of like a grand delusion or something, I don't know,

1 (3m 4s):
Actually in reality. Yeah.

2 (3m 6s):
It's almost just kind of pretend like, Oh yeah, no, that didn't actually happen. That was some crap. Your mind made up that you're just living.

1 (3m 16s):
Okay. Okay. Ma'am let, let's start with the, with the mental health talk. So what the first question always the same, which I ask is if you give me a brief history of how your mental health journey began, what were your first symptoms, how you got diagnosed, how you got into the system, just that sort of India pale for other people to understand how it happens, how does condition can start at a younger age?

2 (3m 45s):
Yeah. So I guess it, it probably started when I was like symptoms. I started probably when I was a younger kid. I remember like, like looking in the air and seeing things like hands in the air or something, or a knee, like feeling like if I weren't to do something, something bad or care about what happened, like stand in this circle over here, otherwise, you know, the house is going to collapse. You can't prevent the house from collapsing unless you stand in this imaginary circle that you've drawn for yourself. And I remember one time just staring at this toy had, and seeing just dance. But I think at that point I was kind of sleep deprived. I've never really been able to sleep well at night, but throughout high school, I think it just kind of got construed as depression.

2 (4m 31s):
I wasn't really sad. I was just withdrawn. I didn't really like, I guess more negative symptom wise just didn't really have any motivation to do. Anything felt like distant from people to try to kind of lash out at like me, myself and my environment in a way that was kind of productive and more of a, kind of like a I'm here kind of thing. But got diagnosed with depression was put on a Prozac. And I think I tried a few other things that just didn't really agree with me. So it was better off the antidepressants and on which is probably a big red flag that it wasn't depression to begin with.

2 (5m 11s):
I had a kind of a major psychotic break in college. Some roommates just kind of found me huddle up, just kind of mumbling to myself. I was just completely out of it. They took me to the hospital where they kept me for a few days. Cause they, they said I was suicide watch, but there's there's suicide wash. And then there's like going to harm yourself because you, you're not suicidal. You just have these weird ideations that like, I have to like cut up in my arms in order to find the implant or some crap that just spews out like that. Cause I get, I get a lot of like weird self surgery kind of things. I try to like open up my hands before I tried to, I, I thought doctors put an implant in my neck before I've tried to open my neck up and try to pull.

1 (5m 58s):
And is that because you, you experiencing hallucinations or you're experiencing something which made you believe that

2 (6m 10s):
It was more just like, I don't even know what got the ball rolling. I just know where it ended up at it's my brain tends to take things, just kind of like run with it and all these weird, crazy directions. So I, I remember after one of my breaks and I was hospitalized, I was convinced that one of the doctors had injected me with AIDS, which was just this bizarre, like out of nowhere, just like, Oh great. Now I'd like, I know he did that. Like I know that's what they're trying to do. They're trying to experiment on me kind of thing. I think I've been hospitalized five or six times, but it's over getting the diagnosis didn't really happen until I think I was 21 or 22 after a major break.

2 (6m 57s):
And it's just in and out of different psychiatrists and therapists and kind of a collaboration of all of them. Here's some anti-psychotics Oh, they're working that schizophrenia kind of thing. But I let's see, you know, I think, I think everyone who has schizophrenia has like some kind of break or another, I had a therapist kind of put it as it there's tears. There are people who have one break from reality and that's probably all they're going to have. There are people who go intermittently in not a reality, which is kind of where I'm at. And there's some people who are just in a constant state of delusion, which is, you know, there, but for global coin kind of sentiment.

1 (7m 44s):
Okay, fine. So what, so, so in your 2021 you got diagnosed, then what happened then? Did you, because you're working now, you're obviously more stable.

2 (7m 57s):
Yeah, I was, I was in college kind of going through all this in my twenties. So from probably the years 17 to about 25, I was just kind of just in a really bad state. I was drinking heavily to compensate and trying different kinds of meds, but this was pre Obama. So I didn't have insurance for a period of time. So it was just kind of bouncing around and trying to find free samples or something that would work. So I was, I had, I have a very good support system, which has been very helpful, but I've been in and out of college past 15 years now trying to finish out my degree.

2 (8m 37s):
I started out as a pre-med and then I switched to nursing and then biology and then just dropped out completely when my health became more of a issue. And it's kind of funny cause I pulled up my grades recently to reapply for col school. And you just see the cascading, like going downhill from the beginning. It's, it's, it's depressing in that regard, but it's, it's nice

1 (9m 4s):
To become a doctor.

2 (9m 6s):
No, I, you know, I didn't, I, I, I, I wish I was originally planning on going to school for anesthesiology. And then I, when, when my mental health kind of affirm that, that wasn't going to be up a good road to go down, I switched to nursing necessary. And then as school just stopped becoming an option, I left a little bit and tried to go back and finish a degree out in biology because I was close to that and I fell in love with cave conservation. So I did a lot of spelunking down in Missouri and well, I say, well, one thing I was in cave, ecology courses that took us belonging.

2 (9m 45s):
And then I ended up having to drop out completely. I moved, I would, this was all in Missouri. And I moved back to my home in 2010. I think it was and stayed with my parents a bit dry, spent the last, you know, 10 or 11 years getting kind of well, and I'm going back to school now to become a counselor just because, you know, it seems, seems appropriate to kind of share my experiences with in a way that might be beneficial to other people who've gone through similar things.

1 (10m 24s):
So are you experiencing any psychotic symptoms now? And I, in the present sort of time in 2021,

2 (10m 34s):
You know, one, one fortunate thing about me is I've been very susceptible to medication there. I, I have psychotic breaks. There's a, I'm on a drug called Rexulti it's it's. I knew, well, it is brand new. I think it's a modified version. I heard somewhere it's a modified version of Abilify, but it seems much better than Abilify. It's worked out really well for me. My doctor originally wanted me on two milligrams, but I, you know, we, we worked it down to just one. I figured the less, the less I take, you know, the, not necessarily the better, but the less side effects I have to kind of deal with. And there hasn't been many side effects that just, it gets me a little bit lethargic, but a one milligram seems to be fine.

2 (11m 20s):
It's it's not that I don't have psychotic breaks. It's more that they're just tolerable. They're it's, it's more just like a it's it's I can handle it for what the, the amount of meds I'm on, if that makes any,

1 (11m 35s):
But it says a negative side, the negative symptoms of schizophrenia is that what's causing you issues. Do you think,

2 (11m 46s):
I mean, there's that, there's also just kind of weird beliefs. Everyone's the way that I can best describe it is it feels like my brain is going to calm compartmentalized. There's just, there's just different sections. Just kind of doing their own thing and they don't, they don't Quock cross their wires exactly right. As they should. I, I tend to mumble out to myself or talk to myself or not like, I think everyone does to a degree, but not just like unaware of what they're doing or just like in regards to something else. Sometimes I tend to forget where I'm at, but only for like a split second. And I have like a weird Twitch. I Twitch every now and again. And I can't tell if that's just from the medication or urges or the disease or something completely different, but I do get, you know, native symptoms.

2 (12m 34s):
Occasionally I get more positive symptoms. I'll I don't necessarily see things, but I definitely hear things. Usually there are people outside of my walls talking about how they're coming in to arrest me or get me, or I hear a lot of piano music from the outside of the room or some kind of like quiet feeling that I need to do something in order to protect myself.

1 (12m 59s):
Do you get frustrated about the amount of understanding of your condition that is lacking from your peers and from the medical community? Is that an issue you

2 (13m 14s):
From the metal community? Yeah, I, I, I was a very, very heavy smoker for a very long time and I've been very worried that I've, you know, caused more damage to myself than I think is showing. But so, you know, my blood pressure has been very high lately. You go to the doctor and some of them have assumed that it's, it's more just in my head. So it's like, well, no. So you have to kind of like really, really establish that where your grounds are. And on the other, on the flip side of that and not to just play devil's advocate, doctors and nurses, when a lot of people, when you deal with a lot of people who present symptoms of a certain thing and you see someone who's more stable presenting a similar symptom, it's easy to con you know, combine them into a single unit.

2 (14m 11s):
It, I think a lot of people have to remember that their doctor isn't with them 24 seven. They don't really see all the things that they go through. So it it's, it's something that they have to kind of remind them as far as my peers go. I, you know, I, I grew up gay in the Midwest. It's one of those things. It's just like, I, I don't have it in me to care about what other people think of me anymore. It doesn't, it phases me in the extent that people vote and people tend to vote for things that aren't healthy. If they are not informed about it, there definitely needs to be a lot of reform with health insurance, with, you know, universal there to be universal health care, but that's getting off topic.

2 (14m 55s):
There definitely needs to be something reformed with access to mental health. You know, if, if my psychiatrist were to leave me, it would probably be about five or six months before I get into an apartment with somebody new, just because it's, it they're booked. They, they, they can't take on any, a lot of places can't take on new clients and you have to kind of work around the fact that not every psychiatrist in the area is going to take your insurance. So it's, it's a, it's a give and take

1 (15m 23s):
Quiet. It's kind of like an acceptance of the, of how your localized world is at the moment. You can't change it. So you kind of just got to accept it and live your life to the best you can.

2 (15m 36s):
Yeah. And, and, and in that regard, I, I don't, I don't care if somebody has a negative connotation about me. I'll say I don't, I don't care if anybody knows, if I'm schizophrenic, I care more people find out if I'm schizophrenic in their regard that like it, I, it, that's out of my control. You know, I, I, I, I, if, if somebody knows I'm schizophrenia through me and that's fine, you know, they, they either take that or they leave it or they get pissed off about it. If they don't, if somebody finds out, then I, you know, I have no really say in how their brain processes that, or if they see me in a negative light, and that really only affects me if there was somebody like my boss or, you know, somebody who has a say in my livelihood, which

1 (16m 20s):
Yeah. I mean, similar of me, I mean, I'm pretty open with, with my diagnosis. I haven't told people at my current job yet, but if they do find out by Google search, I'm fine with it. It's not, it's not a problem. Or, you know, if it needs to be out, I will talk about it. But the way I say, you know, we can solve stigmatize ourselves. We can, we can make us think, you know, okay. Yeah. Schizophrenia, such a terrible thing to have, but at the end of the, it's just a medical conditioner, right.

2 (16m 59s):
It's akin to somebody saying, Oh, that person has diabetes. What, you know. Yeah, exactly. It's just, it's, it's, it's a weird thing to, but I, a lot of people just don't know about it. And I think that's more, that's more of an issue. It's, it's more of like a portrayal in the media. You see, you see people in their, like a padlock room or something. There, there are, there are people out there who have, who have the condition much worse than I have. I feel like I'm functioning for everything considered, but it doesn't necessarily mean that, you know, the vast majority are need round the clock care, but it doesn't take away from the fact that they do either.

2 (17m 43s):
It just, it's just part of life. And then just dealing with the shit. I think you're, you're

1 (17m 50s):
Quiet. You know, you quite, you've reached a level of acceptance where you felt, you know, it's as kind, right. Well, this is the way it is. That's, that's how it is. That's why I get that feeling from you.

2 (18m 4s):
Yeah. It's, it's, it's more like, I, it is what it is in the regard that I don't have. I know what I do and don't have control over and I accept that, but it's, it's also more just, I, I, I don't have any say in how a person reacts to something, or if they're willing to put time into listening to my side of things. I can't, I can't force that on people. And if you know the idea that we've all had a life, we all have gone through things. If, if you are my age, you've had the exact same access to all the information I have. And you still choose to believe certain things.

2 (18m 48s):
Even after hearing my side of it, then, you know, good luck living your life like that. That's RDA

1 (18m 55s):
For. I can see where they're coming from.

2 (18m 58s):
It's, it's not, I, the, like I said, the only, the only way that it affects me is if there's voting on issues that would lessen certain burdens or create more, depending on the sway of the outcome or whatever,

1 (19m 18s):
Since get your working anyway, do you find your job helps you?

2 (19m 21s):
Yes and no. It, like I said, it's very, it's not necessarily that the job itself is hard or stressful. It's more just, I work with a lot of people who are under a lot of stress and pressure, and they, I don't know if anybody has worked in healthcare, but a lot of people have a bit of an attitude sometimes. Yeah. It's and it's, it's fine. I get it. I get it. But, you know, I work in a, in an area where you, you basically have to either, either tell somebody really good news or constantly tell people bad news. So it's, it's a fun way to, I guess I shouldn't say fun it's it can be vexing to have difficult conversations all day clinical and my what?

2 (20m 10s):
Cynical. Cynical. Oh yeah.

1 (20m 12s):
Chemical. I mean,

2 (20m 15s):
Sorry. No, I, I work. I just, I process specimens. So it's usually if I make a call it's because we can't run a test.

1 (20m 27s):
Okay. I work in hospital as well. I was working in a hospital in London during last year. So that I've changed. I've changed sites now, too. I'm actually working from home at the moment, but that different hospital. So my career is healthcare related. I work in, I in the computer side of it, but sometimes I'm based on site at the hospitals. So I find it interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Last year was strange. We've Covid.

2 (21m 1s):
It is. And it's, it's, it feels like it's finally starting to wind down, which has been a very big relief, but, you know, let's say there's always going to be good and bad days, but my, my work has been very, it's been nice to be able to get out of the house. It's also, it's, it's nice to work at a place that takes Covid seriously. And I feel like does a lot of good work in the community with it. And it's, it's also nice in the regard that I, you know, I was able to get the vaccine, which has been helpful in, in my stress levels, at least a little bit.

2 (21m 45s):
So it's, it's, it's good in that regard. It, it almost feels, I don't know. Everything just, it just felt so surreal this past year and a half that it's I guess a year that it's just, just, yeah.

1 (22m 2s):
Yeah. I know. I don't. You mean it w it's still a bit 20, 21 is a silhouette of a stranger to tell me what I mean, do you, do you go to any, do you do anything outside of work outside of your home life to help you with your condition? Do you go to any drop-in centers or have you gone to them in the past? Is there anything like that?

2 (22m 27s):
I see a therapist. I see him. I saw him more regularly than I do now. It's he, he's a bit older. So we've been doing it on a zoom, but it, it, it doesn't, it doesn't bring the same for me. So it's hard to, it's hard to keep scheduling. I get on it, but it, you know, it, I understand it. Other than that, I, I try to eat well. I try to try to work out. I, I feel, I, honest to God, I feel like working on eating well has helped my mental health more than maybe even the meds, but when not, not by, not by a long shopping, but definitely, definitely more so than I thought it wouldn't initially, like I said, I have my blood pressure reached a really high level back in 2017, right after I got married.

2 (23m 17s):
So I saying that a lot, it's kind of funny. But after that, I, I kind of took my health more seriously and started. I quit smoking, quit drinking, and started eating better and started going to the gym more. But this past year, not being able to go to the gym has been kind of difficult. But one of the, since I was taking classes at a local university, I've been able to use their pool, which I, I didn't realize how much I miss swimming until I get back in it. And I also didn't realize how poorly coordinated I am until I got back in the water. They're taking a year off, but nice.

1 (23m 57s):
Okay. I think we're gonna wrap it up. There's two more questions. I want to ask you the first question I want you to, you can talk about anything you want, anything I haven't asked you, now's your chance to talk? If I, something that I haven't asked you, please do talk about it now.

2 (24m 15s):
Yeah. I w I would say that for me, I've been very, very fortunate. I, I recognize that it's, it's, it's diff it for me. It's, it's probably more different from somebody else. Who's had issues with insurance. I will say the most evil thing in America right now is the healthcare system in, in that there was a period of time when I was working in, this is just a rather an adult story, but I think it's not necessarily unique. There was a time I was working at a different place and the insurance, I had insurance, I was paying a lot of money for the top tier of it.

2 (24m 57s):
Each month. They, they would only pay for my meds. If my doctor ordered some random pharmacy out in the middle of Ohio or something, it always arrived about two to three weeks late. And it was, it was the shot. So it, the way that the shot works at stacks off on itself. So there was about two or three years where I just needlessly was going out of my gourd. I was getting all the bad side effects of the meds, and then I was gaining weight, but it was just completely out of control because so staggered wrong. And it, it just, it goes to show just how bad everything is in that regard. Even my meds now, like they, they cost an arm and a leg, but you have this magic receipt and suddenly they're like $5.

2 (25m 43s):
It doesn't make any sense. It's just, it's, it's completely asinine. But there, there is something to be said about people in poverty or in even like middle class anymore, who just needlessly suffer because they can't have access. They don't have access to meds. It's insane. And not to make a punter, but it's mind-boggling, but yeah, not to, not to, to completely derail theirs. That was just a little thing I just kinda wanted to.

1 (26m 14s):
Yeah. I think one of my previous episodes has been to a trap from Canada and he said, and I looked it up afterwards. There's a new medication, which they're trialing, which is a nose spray after third, if you heard about it.

2 (26m 31s):
No, I haven't. But I mean, that would make sense. There's a lot of the vessels in your nasal cavity, you will get hit fast with whatever you're putting in there.

1 (26m 40s):
Oh, it also bypasses the digestive system. So you do not get the same side effects.

2 (26m 47s):
Yeah. You would absorb it straight through your vessels.

1 (26m 49s):
Yeah. It goes to the brain. So that would be fantastic if they, if they did, if that got approved and became, became available. I mean, that would be a game changer. I would, I would think

2 (27m 5s):
In terms of speed. Yeah. There's a, the, one of the issues with a lot of the anti-psychotics is just that it needs to build up in your system and the longer it takes to put them just in the more likely you are to build a tolerance to it. So it's, it's, that would be, that would be, that would help circumvent a lot of issues with that. I think I, I think it's, it's probably gonna seem, I don't know. It seems not that it seems weird, but it seems strange to me, for some reason, it just doesn't seem like it's something that I would ever think that would be a possibility I'm going to take my meds just nasal spray.

1 (27m 44s):
Okay. And the last question I would ask you, could you let me know some sort of music? What sort of genre you like? So I'll tack onto the end of this episode.

2 (27m 55s):
You know, I I've been on a big sixties and seventies kick the past couple of weeks, but I heard after Def pump split up, I've been on a big, big Def pump check and, and you know, anything electronic right now just is one of those feelings of just like, Oh God, I'm, that was 30 years ago. They joined together and I'm old, but it's it's, it was sad still at the same time,

1 (28m 22s):
It was sad. It's quite kind of amusing. I saw the video the other day.

2 (28m 26s):
Yeah. Yeah. I saw that too. Is I get it, like, if I were in their shoes, I'd want to retire too, but it's very <inaudible> yeah. Yeah.

1 (28m 39s):
That's the truth. Okay. I just want to say, thank you for speaking with me. Thank you for coming on my first video interview and absolutely pleasure. You know, I hope everything goes well with you and, you know, just continue, continue fighting and yeah, just great pen to speak.

0 (28m 58s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>.