0 (31s):
Hello, and welcome to another episode of interview with schizophrenia. I'm your host on consignment center. And today I have the great pleasure of having Johnny with me. He is from Norway is 46 years old. He's being schizophrenic for 15 years. So welcome to the show, Johnny, how you doing today?

1 (53s):
Thank you very much. Very nice. Thank you.

0 (56s):
Okay. That's great. So Johnny, why I want to ask you, if you would give us a bit of a history of how your mental health journey began, what were your symptoms?

1 (1m 12s):
Yeah, 2005, the springtime. I remember I start getting thoughts about someone looking at me, procession. I don't know the English word for it, but it's like it was, if someone was looking at me all the time, even when I was alone, I experienced that. I start thinking if there may be cameras everywhere, looking at me or something. So it was, it was very heavy, but then it changed. It changed into something.

1 (1m 53s):
It was like, I get visitors from someone else than me. It was like, it was the second person inside my head. And I start communicating with this person and I asked very many questions. What is this? What, what, who are you? What are you doing? And, and I remember it, it went on for maybe three or four weeks and, and then I, they connected something inside my brain. So my, my I got psychotic and it was very unpleasant because my life before was very bright.

1 (2m 43s):
I look very bright on life and I was very happy with life. And I had a woman. I had job. I had everything suddenly my whole life was shrink into a little dark space with very much darkness around surrounding me. I was walking around in the streets. I'm looking, I saw an image of my body lying down, down on the ground everywhere. I went dead and it's like, and it went up. This went on for maybe a month.

1 (3m 27s):
And, and these, I call them, people start talking to me and for, for a very strange, it was like, I could, I could almost think what they were thinking is like, they were connected to a space inside my brain that could communicate with them on a very strange level. And I asked them, who are you? And they said that we are dementia people on the, on the nursing home.

1 (4m 8s):
And I said, w what is this? Is this research program? Yes. This is research program going on since the 1950s. And I ask, is this allowed to do? And then it becomes very, we start arguing because I didn't, I didn't accept this Richard program from existing because if the dimension people can go inside the brains of people in the streets and make them ill, that's very bad for the world.

1 (4m 48s):
And that's roughly how it began. And of course you want to ask some questions.

2 (4m 56s):
How do you feel about, because that's a psychotic delusion? How do you feel about that? Now?

1 (5m 7s):
I'm still fighting them because they're still here. They're talking with my mouth and they, they can listening to my thoughts and they can even walk with my body. It's very scary.

2 (5m 24s):
Okay. Okay. Fine, Johnny. I mean, that's quite scary experience, you know, because I think with schizophrenia, the worst aspect is, is that it can take away our ability to, you know, you don't know what part of the brain is affected. You can't trust your own brain anymore. You know, I think, you know,

1 (5m 54s):
I see what you, I see what you mean. And that's when you see Coptic Dan it's. Yes, yes. I've been psychotic for 10 years and six months and four, five years ago, I took some TUPE mocks 400 milligram Topamax and it, and it suddenly disappear. So I haven't seen psychotic for almost five years now. And it's very nice because psychotic is very bad.

2 (6m 29s):
Yeah. So what do you experience now? Do you experience any symptoms at all?

1 (6m 34s):
Yes, of course. They still visit. They are still inside my head and in talking with me and, and doing things inside my brain, but it's not affecting me that much because now, you know, a psychotic is like you being in hell and being normal. It's like being in heaven. Yeah. Yeah. It's totally different state of mind. So

2 (7m 8s):
Did you, are you religious? Like, do you have a spiritual outlet?

1 (7m 13s):
Yes, of course. I, I believe in something bigger than me. Yes, of course. And I have been, I haven't been the best child of here in Norway. We have Christianity and I haven't been the best child of that, but yes, I believe there is something more powerful than me.

2 (7m 43s):
So do you ever, do you have a look to God to help you?

1 (7m 48s):
Oh, that was a very good question because these people inside my brain, they were in the beginning, they tried to make me believe that they were God. And, and I was joking about it because I saw some point of view, some point in my life. I said, I am God. And when they come inside my brain and saying they were God, just answer. No, I am God. And then the arguing begun.

2 (8m 18s):
Yeah, man. I mean, it's a difficult, it's a difficult thing to experience, you know, because your brain is telling you one thing and you don't know what to believe. Tell me what it feels like. Can you tell me what it feels like when they speak to you in your head? What's the fee? What do you have you feel?

1 (8m 40s):
Okay. First of all, they don't speak inside my brain. They speak with my move. Okay. Yeah. So it's very alive. It's like a cinema movie. Okay. I have to deal with it. So I'm trying to get past.

2 (9m 3s):
Okay. And are you on medication

1 (9m 8s):
Abilify.

2 (9m 9s):
Okay. Okay.

1 (9m 11s):
I don't notice the medicine very much because it's very, it's not strong, so I'm very happy with that.

2 (9m 22s):
Okay. And do you have a support network?

1 (9m 27s):
Yes, of course. I have the Norwegian health care.

2 (9m 31s):
And what about your family or friends?

1 (9m 34s):
Yes, I have family and I have lots of friends and you know, I, I talk about this to everybody. Okay. Spreading words about this inside the Facebook for Almost 15 years. So,

2 (9m 57s):
Huh. What is your message that you want to put out there?

1 (10m 2s):
I want to free the people in the streets and the dimension. People from governments research on telepathic.

2 (10m 13s):
So you believe that people with dementia are being experimented on? Yeah. Okay. Okay, man, I'm dying. Yeah. I dunno. I dunno what it's like in Norway, but yeah, it's, that's not ideal situation. Really?

1 (10m 37s):
No, it's not.

2 (10m 38s):
It's not ideal. Is it? Okay. Johnny's tell me what, what do you, how do you feel about the future now? Because you said that when you were younger, everything was going well, and then things became darker. How do you see, you know, how can, how can life improve for you?

1 (10m 60s):
Well, the psychiatrist says that the life experience expense

2 (11m 7s):
Expectancy.

1 (11m 9s):
Yes. Thank you. Approximately between 50 and 60 years on people like me with my diagnosis. Yeah. And no, I don't care about it because I don't know. You know, I work as an inventor. Yeah. I have checked my IQ. I have IQ on 150 plus. So the problem was when they comment side my brains and start doing the things they can do with the brain and the body, they didn't, they noticed that I very smart and that was not good for either me or them because they get very jealous and started to compete with me about who was the brightest.

1 (12m 8s):
It was very sick, but it's okay. I can look back at it now and laugh of it. But you know, you have to try to understand how the dementia people think how they are too, because when they were young, they may, maybe didn't go so much on school and have a good education. And all they had was maybe life experience and things, but I have much life experience myself. So it wasn't, it was like it was competition all over the line.

1 (12m 54s):
It was who was the smartest, who was the best and who was, and who was that? So, but the future, as, as I said, well, I'm working as an inventor and I invent many things, new, new technology. And of course the dimension people inside her brain find that very amusing and interesting. So they keep on staying here. But I really don't know. I, I, I have so many things to think about that. I have not no time to think about it.

1 (13m 35s):
Yeah. I haven't, I haven't yet made a conclusion.

2 (13m 41s):
No way. I love Norway. I went to Oslo in 2019, a beautiful city. You know, it's a beautiful country. I really, I want to go back to Norway. I really enjoyed my time. There. It's quite sort of, it's quite, quite, it's very, it's got beautiful countryside and it's all that Nordic culture, which is very interesting as well. I think, which is different to Y know, from London where London's a bit more kind of edgy streetwise, whereas all snow is more sort of culture.

2 (14m 23s):
Then a bit more laid back, I think.

1 (14m 30s):
Okay.

2 (14m 30s):
So John, do you enjoy reading any books?

1 (14m 34s):
No. I never read a book in my life. Why not? You have no, I have not. Of course, when I went to school, the magic I'm educated on engineer, but that was only majors and books for school.

2 (14m 53s):
Yeah. You don't read literally

1 (14m 56s):
The mathematics and physics and chemistry and all these things

2 (15m 2s):
Degree. What was your degree

1 (15m 4s):
In? I'm an engineer in house building in Norway.

2 (15m 10s):
In mechanical engineering. No, no, no, no, no civil engineering.

1 (15m 15s):
No, no, no, not civil it's architecture. No, no, no, no house building. Okay. Okay. I know very much about houses in Norway because they are very special builds.

2 (15m 33s):
Yeah. I think, I think the Nordic style of houses, it's very modern. It's quite so forward thinking.

1 (15m 43s):
Walls, wood, lots of installation.

2 (15m 46s):
Insulation. Lots of glass. Yeah. I think it's a, your light in,

1 (15m 53s):
I, I can calculate beams and all the things in the house.

2 (15m 60s):
Okay, cool. That's good. Yeah. Okay. Johnny, what about films? What sort of films do you like

1 (16m 8s):
To be honest with you? I do not have a television. Okay. I haven't had a television for seven years.

2 (16m 15s):
So why do you like to read or watch television?

1 (16m 20s):
I like to think I like to use my brain and of course I am very much inside the Facebook, reading other people's opinions and stuff. I try to keep up with the world.

2 (16m 37s):
Okay, cool. Cool. Do you smoke Johnny?

1 (16m 43s):
Yes. I smoke a tea.

2 (16m 48s):
Okay, cool. That's good. And also, have you experienced any discrimination?

1 (16m 55s):
It has some, but I don't care because it's not difficult.

2 (17m 3s):
Why? I don't care. I think, I think you've got a strong personality you believe in, you've got your own theory about the hallucinations you believe in it. And I think you should, you should be for fray. You should be strong in your past. Silencee that's very important. You know, don't let other people treat you badly, you know, you, you, yeah, definitely. I think you're, you're a very likable person, you know? So that's the important thing, you know? So, so Johnny, wow. What else I'm going to ask you is why I want to ask you, is there anything that I haven't asked that you would like to talk about?

1 (17m 54s):
Well, you know, this dimension, people had told me many strange things and they can do many strange things to my body, but I, I have a message for the world and this research program will be shut down. Okay. I will make sure of that.

0 (18m 17s):
Well, I, if anything such exists as it, I hope it will get shut down because it's not, it's gone no place in modern society.

1 (18m 28s):
It kills people.

0 (18m 29s):
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So if such a thing exists, I think it should be shut down. Yeah. I can turn on the music.

1 (18m 41s):
I'm actually, I'm a singer, so I like to sing opera

0 (18m 45s):
Opera. Okay. So opera. Okay. Fine. Okay. Joey, absolute pleasure to talk with you. You know, really enjoyed it. I hope it was okay for you as well. I just, just want to say thank you for talking with me. Thank you very much. My pleasure. You very much. Okay. Bye-bye <inaudible> <inaudible>.