Duncan (19s):
Hi, this is episode two of Interview with a schizophrenic. I have Amin with me. He lives in Germany. He was a refugee from Syria. He is twenty-two years old and he has a schizophrenia diagnosis. Hello? How are you?

Amin (35s):
Yeah. Hi, I'm fine. Thanks so much. Sorry for my English also. Yeah, it's not perfect.

Duncan (43s):
That's absolutely fine. Sprechen ein bisschen Deutsche but I do not know any Arabic

Amin (57s):
So its fine in English.

Duncan (1m 0s):
So I just, I just thought. You are a refugee from Syria. That was quite interesting. If you would like to talk about what happened to you. What happened over there?

Amin (1m 17s):
Actually I'm from Syria, from Raqqa city and in 2015, I was in Raqqa city ISIS. You know, so when I was, there and the situation was fairly difficult , bombing every day. Like my life was a little dangerous, so I was afraid of death. Like every day I had this fear of death was not a hallucination or something. It was real fear actually.

Duncan (1m 53s):
So what about, what about your family. Were you living with your family at the time?

Amin (1m 56s):
Yeah in that time I was living with my family and you know, our city, we had also, we, we were refugees in Syria, the same in our country, because we move it from Raqqa to another place.

Duncan (2m 11s):
Yeah. So did you all go to Germany or did you get separated?

Amin (2m 17s):
No. Well, when I decided to come to Germany, I decided the Lord to come it's was like the, the, the role of the way from Syria to Germany was really dangerous also So and they don't, they don't want to live in the country. So I came alone, so I left my family there.

Duncan (2m 40s):
Okay. Where are you married? Do you have children?

Amin (2m 43s):
My father and my, my parents on that,

Duncan (2m 52s):
I'll see you in the rack when ISIS would control it and rack up. Is that correct? That is,

Amin (3m 3s):
Yeah, that was out of a low, actually it was like fear of death everyday, or a fall from ASIS or from a bomb being from LASA, 3g, him or something like this. It was really difficult there. So, and I decided to come to Germany, I move it to <inaudible> and then I came with this board, if you, I don't know if you'll know the story about this boat, but a lot of people are dying in the,

Duncan (3m 33s):
We hear all the news. When you see him, he is about the internet.

Amin (3m 37s):
Yeah. This a thing. So I think what I've with the situation in Syria, my life in Syria, and this is the way from Syria to Germany is dangerous way all. So I think every, all of these things that are hard, this is the reason for schizophrenia, the schizophrenia.

Duncan (4m 3s):
Cause they talk about, I am in this country. That is one of the coolest is for schizophrenia is trauma. So if you aren't living in a war, a war torn country, and you're refugee, you want to go through some serious trauma so I can understand it. I know, I know it was. So I would say, and maybe you're predisposed because you have to have that pre this position for the illness. And if you have the trauma as well, it can trigger it. I think.

Amin (4m 38s):
Yes, of course the session in Germany or the first year here also, it was not easy. It was difficult. And also I was living in an account for like very bad cause then in a tent or so for two months I live in the mirror. It's so many people, I don't know. I'm not used it to live in this way. When what's hundred people are in one tent. Yeah. That was something that was strange also for me. And after that also in the first year here in Germany, it was like, I think also that, that was another reason effected me, which is for me because I was a, they left my family, my friends, everything, I lost my studying my everything.

Amin (5m 37s):
So how did you hear me now? Yeah. 'cause I got the call. So I was in a bad situation. I started to drink a lot of alcohol smoke, weed and so on. And this also, that was,

Duncan (5m 59s):
Yeah. I mean, if you want us to, for you, I mean, this is one of the way he went for a week is absolutely her in the us. I mean, how was the life in Germany and deep down people trip? Did you feel that you would treat it as well? I mean, you know, in my,

Amin (6m 22s):
Yeah, so I can say that the situation was really bad in the first year here in Germany. I am in Germany seems like a four and a half years. Yeah. And the first year I was like, yeah, actually it was bad. But after that, after a one year here or in Germany or in 2017, I arrive at, to Germany in 2015. And in November, in 2017, a in January, I, I went, I ended up in the hospital and actually, yeah.

Duncan (7m 1s):
Do you have a sound when you were diagnosed with schizophrenia? When, when did that happen?

Amin (7m 6s):
Yeah, in January of 2017, I went to the hospital for one month after a while they told me not to have a schizophrenia. So they didn't know which kind of schizophrenia after the live, like five months ago, I went to the hospital again. So they told me that I have a paranoid schizophrenia.

Duncan (7m 35s):
Okay. So you said you, that you feel, you worry. Did you ever worry about your own safety? I mean, from what you went from the fear of death, so that was ever present. I would think that would be, I mean, I take a long time to get over it. It doesn't have to be honest with you. I mean, do you, do you feel if you know, like, I mean, how did you feel now? Was it, was it like an intense paranoia? What, what were your symptoms and lost it again?

Amin (8m 12s):
Oh no. How do I, do you heard that yet? Actually in 2017, when I went at this time, we went to the hospital. I was like in another world, I was thinking, I dunno how it's called, but it's like, and I was thinking in a row and another ward, you know, paranoid thoughts. And so on, after a while in the house, after the hospital for like four months, I was terrible. Now I have no symptoms, I think. Yeah. It was a gentleman zero.

Amin (9m 0s):
And I started taking my medication. Actually. It was like just the injection, everyone after that, I felt all right. I thought, no, I have nothing. I don't have to schizophrenia why I need to take this. So I decided to call the it alone. I didn't talk to the doctor. And I, and I was asked for a one year I was doing well, my wife was good. I started a brand in the warehouse. Yeah.

Amin (9m 40s):
What my life was. I learned chairman also in this time or the one year everything was all right after that the parents come like in Kenya again, this thoughts. So we went to the hospital again. I stayed there for one month after two months. I know y'all, it was like five months ago now. I feel all right. Also I have a lot of time, but also I think, well, I mean,

Duncan (10m 19s):
Okay. And you're still quite young actually. And the schizophrenia have a few of you, if you really have the schizophrenia, it could, it could come and go again. I mean, but it depends some people to have a couple of episodic and then it is a bit okay.

Amin (10m 38s):
Okay. Okay.

Duncan (10m 42s):
Oh, well the case, I dunno, I'm not a doctor. I'm like, you know,

Amin (10m 49s):
I also, I thought I don't how she gives you a free and you know, but my doctor and I, I have so many doctors in the hospital apart for the doctors, all of them talked to me and they say that I have, but I don't know if she was afraid in this case, if it was like, just two times in 2017, I have like the symptoms and five months ago, it come from a game.

Duncan (11m 20s):
I think you want to have a dream delusions, right. In a different reality.

Amin (11m 30s):
Yeah. And in a different world, I was living in enough.

Duncan (11m 34s):
Yeah. It is. That's like a severe symptoms of schizophrenia,

Amin (11m 45s):
You know? And that's why, that was the reason why I caught my injection when the one and a half years ago, when I came with

Duncan (11m 54s):
My injection, put it to me as if he stopped her meds, then you can get relapsed as well. That's, that's the thing. So you've called them in a way, because you know that this happened to you like two, three years ago, what you got to keep taking your meds and then you got to keep taking your meds when you stabilize. And when you lower the dosage in the dosage and when you come off of it slowly, that's why would say to you, you know, and you know, I mean, I mean, or what medication are you, are you on in the moment?

3 (12m 45s):
Yeah, I know. Yeah. I don't know, actually. Yeah. There's things I need to talk with my doctor about it. I think if we can't, do you hear me? Yeah. Yeah. I think we can't decide that. But what, what you think you would think I don't have she's a friend now.

Duncan (13m 11s):
Nah, I know. I thought if, I don't know, that's not for me to judge that you were diagnosed by for doctors, that's it? You go to schizophrenia and you're on medication. Well, I'm saying it is right. If you want to start taking your meds, you call it, you call them to stop taking your meds complete. You know, you've called us to talk to us, but I'm, I'm going to stop your meds. I'm just saying, you know, if you want, when you caught them that it can cause, cause the wrong guy.

3 (13m 43s):
No. Yeah. And now what would you like to talk about actually the situation now in Germany or, you know?

Duncan (13m 54s):
Yeah. So Germany you do you sit down?

3 (13m 58s):
Yeah. I see my doctor. He is also a speaker Arabic. My mother's time is from each of you to tell them regularly every three months we talk a little bit.

Duncan (14m 11s):
Okay. Okay. And so what, what did you, how did you see your future? Because for you is difficult because you're a refugee. So like is already that much more difficult and then you've got to deal with schizophrenia as well. I mean, how, how did you feel? Did you, did you feel hopeful for the future? Cause I got to go work in now, which is, you know, which is great because a lot of people are struggling with time.

3 (14m 42s):
Yeah. So actually now I have some hope that it was like one or two months ago. It started to get help. I gained peoples. I started again to do in a month to do my panties. Chef, you go to a school. I learned, I learned German more every day. I, yeah, I think I'm living now with the nurse. She had the flood with the German students.

Duncan (15m 16s):
Yeah. So that, that was good, man. I think, you know, that sounds fantastic. And to be honest with you, I think working, you know, if he could work, that is absolutely, it does wonders for your own, you know, for everything because you have the money that you feel more hurtful you for all the time. So I think, you know, I think that's great. So yeah. I mean, yeah. I mean, do you have any symptoms as well

3 (15m 54s):
On a low I quite stable. Yeah. I don't hear voices or I have to login. I have no delusions. I every Yeah This yes. You know the symptoms, I don't have it, but sometimes I don't have the motivation, want something to do some, all my stuff for the morning for my apprenticeship and so on. And I don't have This motivation all of the time, you know?

Duncan (16m 29s):
So, and you know, I think 'cause when you went for it or Syria refugee, I feel I experience, you know, whenever you learn now, I know I failed, even though it was a horrific at the time is actually a very valuable experience in life, but you've gone for you, something that many people would never go for it. And I think that that would give you, you know, you, you know, perhaps if you could help people, you don't know what it's like, you know, it's, that could be something that you could do. I mean, you know, because we called it like I live in North, I live in London and you know, I've never gone to see something like that.

Duncan (17m 16s):
Yeah. And so I don't really know to me, it's like, I just say it all in the news. It's not, it's not to me is almost not real, but you have actually gone through it, you know, it's your life. So I think that, I mean, to me, that's like a, that's like a, a massive thing. I think, you know, I mean, I think that that's such a, such a you experience to go to the cruise.

3 (17m 49s):
Yes. Yeah. I can say the situation now it's like in Syria or something, my life is better now. I got the help from the government in Germany. I would, because I do proud of the shift so I don't get enough money. So they helped me. They helped me with, with German cars is also, and also I'm learning German now too. Like the volunteer as a translate for people who can't speak German in a German, actually I can help them in the camp or something.

3 (18m 31s):
I'm doing something like this now, you know, in the same time with my apprenticeship,

Duncan (18m 38s):
What you do in your apprenticeship,

3 (18m 41s):
In the warehouse actually like it it's called the, I forgot that, that there was a, sorry,

Duncan (18m 54s):
Do you want me to sleep? You want, okay, fine. I'm just wondering in the future. Do you want to do, but you know, I think to me, because if I had such a valuable experience of life, I mean, you may not think of it. I think it went for his such a value, but it is such a valuable experience because you you've really seen that, that dark side of life, you know? And I forget, and I think when you get older and you become more settled, I think you'll, you'll you reflect and that we'll give you a great insights into life. I think high. Okay. I think I pick them out of salt because we are having some good.

Duncan (19m 38s):
I was just, I just want to decide that I just wanted to, to tell you that you had a really valuable experience. And I think, I think that in terms of life experiences, I think it's a great, valuable, you know, it, and I forget to give you a great insight and to, you know, as I got older, I think Matt inside it was coming out of view and you would like to think it would be, you know, it's such as a valuable experience. Okay. Now this is why a, to B to be honest for, for you and you know it. So I just want him to you, you know, you go to the schizophrenia side, it is, is one aspect.

Duncan (20m 22s):
And I think you are doing very well with your coping well, but you know, w when you went for a sec, I think it is such a valuable experience. You know, you can, you can do great things. I think you've got to be hopeful and positive. That's why I wanted to tell you. And I'm so glad that you join me for this interview. You know, that, because I, I just think that it's so great to speak to someone, your hair and my thing, you know, in terms of a global events, you, what you've gone through, his, his his message and say, I just want you to be hopeful. And, and to feel that, you know, you're in a way, you're your best. And I would, I would say as well, you know what I mean?

Duncan (21m 4s):
So I just want to, I want to say it out.

3 (21m 7s):
Okay. Yes. Thank you for your opinion. And actually for the goal was, and yeah, so yeah, I, I lost everything I told you in Syria. So I started at zero here. If I don't have hope, I will kill myself actually on to some things I need to go home to live. I can't see it.

Duncan (21m 32s):
Yeah. I'm telling you, you went for it. Some valuable that's the thing is the third is always in the side, you know, he said you got to go to, I think, I think it is like a seat. So you can see this, like a girl, like a flower, I think. So you don't know.

3 (21m 48s):
Yes. I started here. I knew with schizophrenia and they have to Canton to count. Cancel is stylish. Don't know what the English word off it actually I'm like, yes, I have to learn to fight or something like this. I just need to look at a spotlight in this study. So I need it. If I give up,

Duncan (22m 30s):
Do you have like an artistic side to me? Would you like to take like photography or like art? You know, I think that's a really good way of expressing, you know, expressing yourself.

3 (22m 40s):
Yeah. So actually I just liked music. I try, I'm trying now to learn, to play a guitar. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I like the music so much. I like metal music actually more than everything. Yeah I got a lot of friends here from the, from the love of things.

Duncan (23m 3s):
Yeah. So you don't, you said you have to go, you have a lot of friends from the love of music.

3 (23m 7s):
Yes. We, I met a lot of people hear in nightclubs or something for heavy metal music. Actually, the first thing that helps me to integrate in the deaf community here in, you know, society.

Duncan (23m 30s):
Okay. Let's, let's see, let's wrap this up. We've had to problems with the connection, you know, when it was great time for me to speak to your old man, you know, I think it is a privilege for me to be honest with you, because I've never spoke to anyone that's going for the experience that you have going for it. I think, you know, you know, your customers and you just pull that you got to believe in life and you got to keep hopeful. I think that you could accomplish what you want to dream before. If you want to say a few minutes, I'll just say it, right? Yeah. No, you didn't want me to say, okay, let's call it a wrap.

Duncan (24m 17s):
Thank you very much for coming and speaking to me today. And it was a pleasure for me.

0 (24m 36s):
<inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.