1 (36s):
Okay. And I had the pleasure of having some you're with me. He is one of the size of a Pennsylvania in America. How does the Samuel welcome to the show you, how are you doing today?

2 (46s):
A little Duncan them a home to own. All right. Just, you know, trying to get by here.

1 (54s):
Yeah. How's how's to cope. It affected you.

2 (56s):
Well, I live in a very, a rural area. I don't know. Have you ever heard of the Amish? Yeah, so I live in an area actually where there's, there's a lot of all mish and, you know, very, very rural. And so we, we haven't been hit too hard by COVID, but maybe as a, like a percentage of the population, but it's been mostly concentrated and like people that work in like agriculture and due to the low and low population density, it, it hasn't been a, to a two worries. And thankfully, uhh, and the city is that it's been a, you know, quite a bit, quite a bit worse, so,

1 (1m 35s):
Oh yeah, definitely. Definitely. I think. Oh yeah, definitely. And the rural areas, it's a, it's a little bit safer, you know, the sea because the population densities, this is a smaller, okay, fine. So lets start. Why are you usually do, is I ask you how your mental health journey began? So what are, you know, when it happened before you got diagnosed, how did you get diagnosed? What was going on around that time? So give me, give me, can he tell me how it all began for you to your journey with psychosis and Schizophrenia?

2 (2m 17s):
Well, I'll actually, I'll go back pretty far. Hear when I, when I was a child, I had always, you know, had some issues with, you know, being different. They, they were confused because it was, I was gifted academically in certain areas and then a, at a deficit and other areas. And I always dealt with a, a, a higher amount of a paranoia. So for example, I remember when I was a kid, I thought I heard the voices outside of my aunt's house and we were having a spend over there. So it was probably like eight or nine years old. I would, I would pick up a, one of my siblings, I would go and they would place him in the doorway and that I would pick her up. Another one of them placed them, you know, a few feet away.

2 (2m 58s):
So the, of being that, if someone was coming in to try to hurt me, that they would have to, you know, step in all of these children in order to get to me. And, you know, I had always a, you know, kind of dealt with certain things like that, always extra vigilant. And so finally I had a, you know, here in here in the States, so we don't have, Anything like maybe I have a baby. I don't know if, if you're in the UK with the NHS are, you know, you know, universal care, we have none of that. So I had a no health insurance. I wasn't able to see a doctor until when we moved from Texas, which Texas was a very conservative state in your, your options are for health care are very limited. Uhm, if you don't know, I have a certain income, so moved to Pennsylvania and Pennsylvania has a much more, a generous, a health care system.

2 (3m 47s):
And my mom's job a covered as a, for insurance. So I was able to go see a psychologist. And that really is, I would say a, I don't know, I apprehension when it comes to diagnosing, you know, children, you know, is having a Schizophrenia or anything like that. So they are initially diagnosed with Asperger's, you know, autism spectrum disorder. And some of the, some of that had never quite made sense to me, 'cause, you know, I was always dealt with, you know, the incredible paranoia and anxiety and I there's actually been a few times in hindsight that I look back and I'm like, Oh, it was probably in psychosis.

2 (4m 29s):
So I managed to get through high school. I went to a university in Hawai'i for about a year. And then I, I became convinced that a, the us government was going to have to default on its debt. So I had saved up some money and I, I actually, I flew to a kurgastan in central Asia. Okay. And I lived there for a couple months and that kind of bounced back and forth between there. And I ended up spending in total about two years over there and I was working, as I said, I was working with a, I mean, it was, it was a port was a pseudo work 'cause it was kind of like a volunteer, but it was kind of like work position over there as an English teacher.

2 (5m 13s):
And I also had a, I don't want to make, to also make it abundantly clear. I don't come from a family with like a ton of money. Oh when I was a child, we were a lower middle class and now my family is middle of middle-class, but I had, I did manage to go to Brazil during that time to, in my travels, managed to go to a few places and I really enjoyed the culture and my dad, my experiences in Kurdistan. In fact, I believe returning from kurgastan to the United States is one of the biggest mistakes I ever made in my life. That, that, that I would say that, yeah, that, that was one of the biggest I.

2 (5m 55s):
I, I have a theory that people with, you know, on the Schizophrenia spectrum do better in countries that are more community oriented and more traditional than a modern Western countries where they just want to jam your pack for the pills. I remember I remember reading and I don't know, you know, it was a strong enough, they'll try not to get too such hard to hear, but I remember reading, for example, the found a no significant difference in countries like India and other developing countries between the general population of Schizophrenia, but in the us or in the UK, there was about a 20 year difference in life expectancy between individuals with my diagnosis and the general population.

1 (6m 38s):
You know, what I heard about this is that I don't know if you hear voices, but what I've had had is the voice it's the type of voice is that you had or localized to your, in your local environment. So like exactly what you're saying is there in the UK and America, they're more hostile because, because in our countries is very competitive. Life is very competitive. It is a highly capitalist. Whereas in countries, like I say, what it is more community it's kind of people support each other. So it's not like an India, the voice has a much more calm and soothing, you know, it's not, it's, it's, I've heard that before.

1 (7m 23s):
So it's a, it's kind of localized to where you live, you know? So that's interesting that you, that you said that as well.

2 (7m 30s):
Yeah. I've, I've, I've heard that, but I also think that I do you deal with it with that issue on occasion, but I will say, I think it really too, is the reaction to the people around you. Right? So for example, maybe somewhere like India or, or other places in Asia that might be considered like a spiritual gift, you know, whereas in our countries, it's, it it's immediately like, okay, no we're taking it. I mean, really that, uhh kind of shows that the type of thinking that like, Oh, we're going to make you better by taking you away from everybody and you know, isolating, you know, but so I haven't made this trip back and forth and I eventually decided that I was going to return to the United States and I had wanted to Well to complete my education.

2 (8m 16s):
You know, I had, I had wanted to get ahead and I thought, okay, I've got to return to the U S get my education and then, and then leave again. Well, I, I returned to the U S and we, we ended up moving to a, a, you know, a more rural area and I was just a, you know, it, it was isolated, you know, a lot more, wasn't able to interact with people. And I, I don't currently have the ability to drive. So, you know, in the U S you had to drive all over the place, unless your somewhere like in New York city, that's a very, a wide country. And the public transit is a Bismal. It's really a, in, in most cases outside of the city, public trans, that has just non-existent.

2 (8m 59s):
And, you know, I, I just, I, I started spiraling and I, it really, I mean that, there's a period of about two years in there from, from the end of 2016 to the beginning of 2018. That really just seemed like a blur to me and, and, and turn it in 2017.

1 (9m 28s):
I was going to say in the sense that when you look back now, the memory of those years is clouded. Is that, is that what you mean? Yeah,

2 (9m 37s):
My, my memory of that at that time is clouded. And when I think of certain things that I thought in that time and my emotional state, just none of it makes any sense to me. And so I, I, I, it, around may of 20, a 2017, I was, I was going through a difficult time as I've finally managed to finish my associates degree after like four years of studying and finishing it up a two year community college degree. And that, that was just because I jumped around so much. And so finally finishing up, but it was really going through a rough time. And I had a, a week and a half looking back, I think it would have been a new episode of psychosis.

2 (10m 20s):
I was not able to sleep for about a week. I was just a, on constant, you know, wired and not able to sleep and, you know, getting paranoid about things and, you know, that sort of thing. And so my, my meditation at the time, I know they still, they were still saying, Oh, you are autistic spectrum. And so there are still seeing that at that time. And, and, you know, living in a rural area of the quality of services you get are, are pretty abysmal as far as, you know, like a will. For example, later, I ended up trying to get a therapist in my local area, a they had no availabilities for over a year.

2 (11m 6s):
You, you couldn't get in to see one for over a year or so. I, I randomly May, 2017. I spontaneously decided to take a trip and go visit some friends in France that I had, actually, there was a girl. She is still my friend. She lived in a kurgastan and the, now she lives in France, inside of the spontaneously, bought a ticket to France. And I really did not have the money to be doing that. I barely had enough money to scrape by and buy this ticket of France. So I go over to France and the whole trip was just a blur to me. I, I see photos of it. And I really don't remember a large portions of it. Or do you feel

1 (11m 45s):
It?

2 (11m 47s):
I think so. Yeah. I think I would say so. And I'm, I don't, if it was just like, I don't want to say it like a, you know, her heard a voice or anything, but it was just like, I had the strong feeling like, Oh, if I, if I just leave, if I get to go to Europe, Oh, this is what it's going to be like. And of course it was nothing. Like I had thought of my head. So I come back from that trip and I was even more, more dejected in an, a worse place than what I went. And so things just kind of carried on like that from I'm from about May, 2017 and then the November or beginning of November, 2017, I heard, you know, managed to get a little bit of money and I decided to take a trip to Costa Rica.

2 (12m 32s):
So I take a trip, this trip to Costa Rica and there, and the, the, the entire time I had lived in Kurdistan. And I had never thought about this first off, I want to say kurgastan is actually a very safe country. The, the murder rate is like a lower or equivalent of like the United States. If you are white or Asian, or you can walk around at night without any, any issues, because they are there going to suspect that you're a local and they don't, they don't mess with locals. And if they do you think you're a foreigner, you know, you might run into some trouble, but generally are very like low rate, have a, you know, a random, you know, a violent crime, you know?

2 (13m 19s):
So you go to Costa Rica, which it, they always say, Oh, is such a safe country, has such as high as a country, but it's still in Latin America, the most dangerous region of the world as far as filing crime goes. And so I go there and my plane gets in at like, I don't know, a, I would say one or two in the morning. And I couldn't check in to my, to my hotel until, you know, like noon. Right. So I had about like eight hours. So I'm not thinking like, everybody is just telling me how Costa Rica. So say of Costa Rica is a safe, I'm not thinking that like, Oh, it's a bad decision. May be to walk around Costa Rica at like three in the morning in, in downtown San Jose, Costa Rica at three in the morning.

2 (14m 8s):
But that's not a thought that's occurring to me. I'm also thinking that like, Hey, everything's going to be open because it's just a quick, it took us to Rica. This is a tourist country. Right. So I'm going to think there's places I could hang out. Well, as soon as I get there, man, everything is closed. Okay. And it is looking sketchy. All right. It's looking sketchy. Like before I went to Brazil, I was very mindful. 'cause, you know, you always hear about, like, to be very careful in Brazil. You know, Brazil has a lot of violent crime. So I was very careful. I had all my stuff to a tee, but with Costa Rica was a bit lax. So a walking in a sitting, sitting down at this park bench and I see these two teenagers, I would say they're like 17, 18, you know, somewhere in there.

2 (14m 52s):
I see them walk from across the street there with a group of people. I see them walk across the street. When you cross car a crosswalk, walking into the park, and then they turn directly in front of me to like start walking towards me. And a, this is really what kind of started causing me to like, you know, really good at, because, well, you have to remember, you know, for most of the year I had already been in like, not a real clear mental and they turn and they start walking towards me and I see one of them has a gun in his hand. Okay. And I'm the one walks up to the left of me and the one other one walks up to the right of me. Now, I'm not going to go into like my whole background as far as stuff.

2 (15m 35s):
But I come from a family that has, you know, a lot of military And, you know, like combat experience and, you know, training and that sorta stuff. So that this guy is standing in the left of me. He has a gun and the other guy's standing up on the right of me. He is he's unarmed. And I'm sitting on this park bench and I have in my pockets, I have about $500 of cash. But not only that, I have a bunch of other stuff, man. I have like a Bible, a notebook. Pencil's my phone. Umm, but my, my, my pockets were the most, as far as my backpack and that in my backpack, I had my laptop and a ton of close. So I'll get to why this is important then.

2 (16m 16s):
But this kid walks over and he's like waving the gun and my face. And they're like trying to reach it in my pocket. I'm just like, no. And then I was like, man, I would of been screwed that for a, a a hundred dollars. It was like paying for the most of my trip. So I'm like, no, no. It was like a bat in the things that were in the guy I started getting there. I started getting more hostile and he's like pointing a gun at me, but it's not right in my face. And that makes sense. You don't know. I mean, And, I don't know why it happened, but it should, it was just like, I'm just completely went to a totally a psychotic, uhm, I just grab the top of the gun and pointed it away from me and started punching this kid in his face. Yes. And yeah, he fell down to the ground and then I turned around and he said something to it at the time I speak some Spanish now, but at the time I spoke and the Spanish and he felt in the ground and he started yelling and my, my phone and my backpack are still sitting on the park bench and I, she turned around and the other guy starts run it.

2 (17m 14s):
And I don't even know. I didn't even think about it, man. I just, I wanted to do harm and I just, I held up the gun and I think I ended up thinking it was a real gun because I just started shooting. I just put up the gun. I just, I, I just started on loading in his direction, but it was so shaky. I don't think so. Anything and yeah. So I throw the gun on the ground, which I wasn't really smart through the gun on the ground. The, the kid that I had knocked down, he gets up, he runs over, he tries to grab my backpack in my phone. So I started chasing after him and he drops my backpack. He ends up getting away with my phone and get my backpack back. And I turned around and I had thrown the gun on the ground.

2 (17m 54s):
And some kid that was there was fighting with this kid over the gun's. So I went and it jumped in a rural fight and stuff. And I know that guy that was empty. So I didn't like, I wasn't too concerned. I just kind of backed off on like the, I told the other guy to back off and the kid just ran away with his gun. And I ended up finding another guy. We called the police and went to the police for the police report. But I was the man that just really messed me up. That whole thing, just, it messed me up. And I went home and I started, I, I started getting a bit like delusions, but I mean, I I've always had a delusion, but they were, these were really severe and a waking up not having good sleep Thank and everybody was, you know, kinda out to get me.

2 (18m 40s):
And, you know, just,

1 (18m 42s):
Do you think these people we're going to take revenge or is it just a general, a general feeling of being in danger?

2 (18m 50s):
So it was just a general feeling and it was, I actually see this was in Costa Rica and that this happened and I, I actually, it was supposed to be there for two weeks. I cut my trip short and I cut my trip short and I went to a, I went back to the States and so I started having panic attacks all the time, too. It was a general feeling of unsafety. And then also too, the feeling that people were, were trying to destroy my soul, we're trying to evade my head. And in fact, I remember thinking after they had tried to Rob me, I legitimately remember thinking that like these guys were demons and I, I pulled out my, my Bible when I was like, you know, like you to get away from your demons and stuff after they had run away.

2 (19m 31s):
And yeah. So I, you know, I get back to the States and everything started to spiral and Matt and I knew something was seriously, seriously wrong that I, you know, that some of the thoughts that I was having. So yeah, I went to my, when I went to my family doctor and I was like telling her, like, I, I, I don't know how to articulate, but I just listened. I'm not feeling like myself. And at the time I wasn't calling it a paranoia, I was just calling it anxiety. And I said, you know, I'm having this ridiculous anxiety that all the stuffs going to happen. And she was like, okay, so what antidepressant do you want? She was asking me, what, what, what medication, what medication do I want?

2 (20m 13s):
Like, I'm not a doctor. Yes.

1 (20m 14s):
But I can't just have it sent to me. But that happens to me sometime as well. They say, So would you want to do? Or what might it, you know what I mean? What they said, you want to be on this, you know? Yeah.

2 (20m 25s):
How does that make you feel when they, when they say that

1 (20m 28s):
Is this like, you know, back then, this was like a few years ago. This would happen quite often. I would dictate how much medication or take, but now I think they've, they've become a bit harder and they, you know, they wouldn't allow me, they'd tell me what to do, but, but I think it was back then was a bit more crazy. And I, and I just, I was kind of angry all the time and I just wanted to be in control. So, but now I'm kind of more accepting I guess. And I just kind of like, okay, fine, I'll take your medication, whatever you would have you say where you want me to take in this sort of thing.

2 (21m 10s):
So she didn't even, she didn't even refer me to like a psychiatrist are, you know, or anything she just said, Oh, what, what w when do you want it? You can to take any of these. And I was like, well, I don't like, what's the, you know, what's the difference. Like, I, I literally, you know, I don't know. And, and, and again, they were just the, you know, like anti-depressants or whatever. And so that happened. And then I went to my therapist and I was like, listen, I think I might need to go to the hospital. You know, I'm, I'm having, you know, these thoughts about violence. And I really think I should go to the hospital. In fact, I actually saw him the day that my incident happened and I don't, I don't really want to go into too much detail, but what ended up happening was I was in a completely like disassociating.

2 (22m 1s):
And just really, it's hard to exactly explain the state of mind, because when I think back to what I'm like, man, that's not me, but I was actually, I was involved in a shooting and with a family member and I, I was the shooter and I ended up, I got charged with they, they put my face on the front of the local paper and they tried to a say, you know, call me, I was guilty of a attempted homicide as what they were you going to try and charge her with that overall, all of the stuff that I was facing.

2 (22m 42s):
And I was looking up to 62 years in prison and they, you know, like obviously I got arrested and, you know, I was treated pretty horribly a N you know, the legal justice system, at least as far as like, you know, actually in jail, like what they do over here in jails. If they say you are suicidal, they take off all your clothes and they give you this Lake tribal, like the best thing. And, you know, you can't, you know, you say you can't tear it or whatever, but you're completely naked besides this thing. It's a very, it's a, it was really to humanizing. And they also, they talk about the, the guards, talk about you in a very dehumanizing way, and there's minimal, you know, mental health stuff.

2 (23m 28s):
And the other thing too is they had messed up my paperwork. Okay. So when I had gotten a, a, an initial paperwork, they had said I was being charged with the homicide, not attempted homicide. And I'm like, wait you in there dead, like in my head for about eight hours, I'm thinking my life's over. I've, you know, I've killed someone. And I'm just like, dude, I, and, and it, it was devastating. 'cause, you know, this person is quite close with them And. And even though it, you know, there had been issues there. And, and I'm thinking like, dude, to this day, what is this? I think the other thing that I want to say to is the police act a completely, ah, you know, unethically because they come in and I don't remember everything because you know that again, that whole thing is very touch and go, but I do remember being in the hospital and they gave me some kind of pills.

2 (24m 23s):
Right. And then later, you know, the law enforcement comes into question of me. So basically I spent about two weeks, two weeks there. And then I, that I got ended up going to the hospital and not getting hospitalized. And they get a gut on what you saw the doctors and they are. And then that's when I received my actual diagnosis and I Schizophrenia. Yeah.

1 (24m 55s):
Schizophrenia and yeah, it's a carry on. Tell me kind of thing.

2 (24m 60s):
Well, anyways, so then I, I was in it, wasn't there for about two weeks and it was actually a pretty, a pretty productive, did a pretty good, you know, getting a good try and get better. And then I spent the next couple of months living with my aunt Oh because of, you know, the situation. I mean, I had an ankle monitor up and then, and then a, my, it was the most, you know, thank God, you know, praise be to have to go out. I ended up, ah, things resolved themselves in about the best way it could be resolved and all my stuff got significantly downgraded.

2 (25m 42s):
And so I, I, besides the time I had already spent in bed and, you know, in confinement that there wasn't really a dish, well, I did have to do about like five months of house arrest. And then now I'm finishing up my first sentence, which was the 24 months of a probation, which included the house arrest. And then now I have another two years to go and then I'll be completely free, so.

1 (26m 9s):
Oh, okay. So do you, do you believe then that shooting, you wear, you were a psychotic when that happened?

2 (26m 19s):
Oh, a a a hundred percent. Yeah. I remember thinking of like a thing or entities we're trying to get inside of my head in destroy and the, the, the, the people we're controlling these entities.

1 (26m 32s):
Yeah. I mean, I had myself, I've had some Brown ones with the police. I'm not going to go into it now, but, but I, I was also deeply psychotic at the time. And, and sometimes it's like a base instincts kicking, like a survivalist and kick it kicks in. And you just try to, do you don't think about the law, I guess you just, you know,

2 (26m 56s):
Well, that's totally irrelevant in that moment. You're like, its just like, you're just trying to survive.

1 (27m 2s):
Yeah. So tell me, let me ask you some questions then. So how did you see the future now? You've had a, you know, a patchy past really? So how are you optimistic? Do you, I mean, what, what did you see? I mean, you know, you're still, you're only in your twenties, so you still pretty young and you got your whole life ahead of you. W where did you, what are your hopes for the future?

2 (27m 29s):
Honestly, I made them, I'm pretty optimistic right now, you know, and God willing I have in the process have a couple of things. One of the things of, of done as I've actually learned a, a fair bit of Spanish and I had, do you have a girlfriend? And I also, I've been trying to teach myself it and, you know, I'm currently like disabled, but it's, it's my, my goal and my, my dream to eventually be able to work in the it sphere. And also a, in the process of joining the, a Roman Catholic church and really try to, you know, just, I realized for me the biggest thing that I don't want to be careful how I say this, but everything happening like I did.

2 (28m 14s):
And then me finding out what the, what the issue really was, has actually enabled me to really get my life a, on a more even kill, you know, on a, on a more level area. So I'm not like a, a, I would say before I was kind of like a, a, a, a pinball or, you know what I mean? Like, it was like, here, here, here, here, here, you know, like just all over the place. And now, you know, I mean, I would just add a couple of things. I want to, ah, you know, be able to work, but I would also like to volunteer and be able to offer, to help people and to try to, you know, try to do a, something, something positive.

1 (28m 50s):
Yeah. You know, I mean, I think when you have an illness, it's kind of a kind of forces you to live a certain lifestyle. A lot of people did, you spend a lot of time at home in recovery, but then like he said, you can go volunteering. You can do education. You could not go to a community drop pins. You know, you can even work towards an occupation if you, if that's what you want to do. So, I mean, now it's kind of a different lifestyle, but you do get some nice opportunities. And, and why is this a friend? Or like, you don't want anything too stressful, just want to do you want to live at your own pace?

1 (29m 35s):
And, you know, so yeah. I definitely think helping people is, is a good thing to do because it's very, and in the sense that you do get rewards in the sense that it helps you and grows you as a person? Absolutely. Okay. Samuel I think we've, we've got a half an hour or so I'm gonna wrap it up here. Absolute pleasure to hear your story. I think you've had some scary experiences, but you know, you've got for you to go on an understanding of what was the cause, what was the case

0 (30m 10s):
<inaudible>.