Duncan (24s):
So welcome to episode three of Interview with a schizophrenic. Today, I have Don with me. He is from Kathleen in Georgia. Hello Don, how are you doing?

Don (40s):
Right. Okay.

Duncan (42s):
So So don't tell me how, what was the origin of your mental health problems? You know, what were you diagnosed Schizophrenia straight away or did you have of the conditions diagnosed? First of all, what happened at the beginning? If you'd like to tell us?

Don (1m 1s):
So in the beginning I was in the army, I just got sent home from basic training. I had injuries to my legs and during the time period, I became very a secluded. I really didn't talk that much. I pretty much shut down and you know I just assumed okay it's just basic depression or something like that not a big deal but then as time went on eventually I started seeing people from the military coming into my room and and like taking things from my room and stuff like that experience yeah and it was terrifying I mean, I ended up waking up my parents and freaking out, you know, I was, I was scared because I was like, I don't understand what's going on.

Don (1m 53s):
And eventually I went and saw a doctor for it. And once I did, they are just like, you know, they had me do tests and ask about the symptomsan and, you know, in the end they were just like, Hey, this looks like Schizophrenia.

Duncan (2m 8s):
Do you think it was in part due to some trauma you had when you in the army?

Don (2m 18s):
No, I wouldn't say that. I mean, I've, I've lived in the military most of my life, you know, I went through a ROTC for quite a few years in high school and stuff. I was pretty prepared for it. I don't know. I think I had just got unlucky, you know,

Duncan (2m 35s):
Well, I mean, you know, I think certain people are predisposed to the condition. So yeah. I mean, you know, is it the statistically and it remains the same for our history. There's always one of the a hundred people around this figure have a schizophrenia. So the statistics staying the same, so, yeah. So, so how old were you when you diagnosed?

Don (3m 6s):
I think I was probably late 18.

Duncan (3m 14s):
Late.

Don (3m 14s):
Yeah. It was the late 18. Whenever it was first tossed around that, that's probably what the diagnosis was. Unfortunately, I kinda ran away from that, you know, I, I was fearful, but the idea of being diagnosed with it, so it was like, okay, I'm just going to kind of push it down and hopefully it goes away. Yeah.

Duncan (3m 36s):
So what did you do when you w what did you do when you're talking about it? I mean, cause did you work, did you, did you have a job for you? What, what was your, what would you, like? You say you had a weight from it?

Don (3m 48s):
Well, it was, it was a mess. The first two years, right after the initial diagnosis was a mess. I ended up, I ended up running away from the army, you know, the army contacted me and said, look, you can't just disappear. You can't just not show up. But I was so scared, you know, I was so scared of what was going on. Eventually they ended up discharging me out. And then, then at that point I was like, okay, I've got to find a job. So I did a bunch of little knickknack jobs here and there, but, you know, it seemed like no matter what I did, eventually the sickness would come back.

Don (4m 28s):
And when it did every time, it just, it ruined whatever job I was in or any type of stability I really had.

Duncan (4m 38s):
Yeah. Okay. Fine. So say I was gonna say, Mmm. Yeah. So what we tell me about that you want to say, you sound very well. You sound, every time you sound a clear head, you know, you sound very well now. Yeah. So you've gone on obviously for a cover and having, you know,

Don (5m 5s):
It's, you know, it, after so many years of having it, I've learned to adapt to it a lot better, especially from when I was younger. I mean, when I, when I, like I said those first two years, I mean, I was in and out of homelessness. I was doing a lot of drugs and alcohol to try to ignore the problem. It wasn't until, you know, I met my wife and I finally decided, okay, it's time to really kind of sober up and try to figure this out.

Duncan (5m 40s):
So are you, or are you affected today or do you, do you still have symptoms? Are you yeah. Is it something that's ongoing for you?

Don (5m 48s):
Yes. If I get too stressed out, if I haven't had enough sleep in a extended period of time, if a very loud noises consistently, it can cause me to get sick pretty quick. And then, you know, sometimes even if none of those things happened, sometimes that just starts that. I mean, it just, it can happen, but now I'm better equipped to deal with it. And then I was back then, that's for sure.

Duncan (6m 16s):
So you got to find that you got a wife, you have a young child. I think that gives you a strong, might've been the reason to, to do well in life. You have to say the positive side. I mean, I think that was great because if that's, you know, when you have a Schizophrenia, sometimes you can just fall down in the cracks, but you know, if you've got a, a, a strong motivation there and then, you know,

Don (6m 42s):
Yeah. Oh yeah. It, it absolutely was ki and it still is to this day support is everything. It really is. I mean, without support, it's so easy to just give up, you know, and, and with having the wife, having the kid, it makes it to where, you know, I got to kind of look at the big picture and say, you know, yes, it sucks that I'm in this situation. I am with it, but you kind of have to deal with the cards that you're dealt.

Duncan (7m 9s):
Yeah, man, that's, that's strong stuff, man. I got to say, so I got what I want to talk to them. Like, why don't we talk about some of your delusions may be, have you got any stories to tell about that?

Don (7m 25s):
Oh my goodness. Yeah. It's a great day.

Duncan (7m 28s):
Oh, okay. You told me in an email that you had some funny, scary stories. Oh yeah. So I mean like a, you know, for people who are in a paranoid delusion is when you have a psychotic break from reality, when you disappear into a normal world, usually you are, and it could be very frightening and you can believe things, witch not happening. And, and it's as easy as a person with schizophrenia. It absolutely feels well and it can be terrifying. So what, what sort of things have you can give me, you know, give me a, a scary one, man. You know,

Don (8m 5s):
A scary ones are, Oh man, they are a rough. So I'm a scary ones where, you know, there was a, a, there was a time period were I thought that for Sure people who are trying to kill me, he, you know, without a doubt, there were no people obviously tried to do that. But in your mind when these delusions are hitting you, you think no matter what is just absolutely true. And you know, it, it, it gets frightening. I mean, you'll lock the doors and I've had times where I've put furnitures up against the, a, the doors in the windows to make sure that people couldn't get in the house to get me. And I'm, you know, sometimes it gets to where, you know, when it's in that kind of situation, like I was saying before, you really need someone there to kind of help pull you out of it, you know, kind of sad.

Don (9m 1s):
Yeah.

Duncan (9m 1s):
Yeah. I've, I've actually, in my past, I actually used to put the key when I used to go to sleep. I used to put the key in the front door and turn a quarter so that nobody is, cause I used to pick people would unlock my door from the outside. Yeah. I think I can, I could see where you're coming from there. So when was the last time you had a severe delusion?

Don (9m 25s):
Okay. I guess the last time I really had a, like a really bad a issue was I about a year ago I was hospitalized and I was absolutely just scared of everyone. I'm a person in that when it gets to that point, I'm so frightful that I may stop eating because I'm afraid that people are like poisoning my food. You know, I won't talk to anyone cause I'm afraid that their may be taking notes on me or recording my conversations. And when I got sent to the hospital, the nurses felt bad. Cause you know, I refuse the sit in the bed. I was hiding in a corner. I would like barricaded myself in a corner of the room and a, you know, they are, but the good thing was, you know, the hospital was nice.

Don (10m 10s):
They, they really try to accommodate me, you know, and I, you know, let them know it was like, look, I'm not aggressive in any way. I'm just terrified. I'm scared that everyone is out to get me right now. And I just need to, to get past this.

Duncan (10m 25s):
Yeah. You know, I'm just talking about the hospital. What is the medical situation in life? And with that because I'm in London and if you get sick in London and it is very difficult to be admitted to hospital or what is, you know, in, in, in Kathleen what, you know, when you, when you need it to go to a place, to a shelter, into a hospital, this is the have medical care. You know, what, what was your process like? I mean,

Don (10m 52s):
So it can be interesting. Its hit and miss, depending on the hospital you go to, obviously I've had a couple that I went to an Oklahoma and a, one of the one's in Oklahoma was amazing to let you go outside. You're a label. You you're actually able to be out like out in the sun, you are able to talk to your family and have visits. It really felt nice being there. And it helped a lot with the recovery, but I've also had ones where it's pretty much like a prison. I mean, you get locked away into a room, you know, if someone comes in occasionally and they give you some medicine and they take your, your vitals and that's it, that's the interaction you get for the day. Okay.

Duncan (11m 29s):
Do you do, how do you feel about other people's perception of your illness? I mean, what to me about that? You know, w what is your experiences?

Don (11m 41s):
Well, I tried to be open is, is open about it as I can with everyone. You know, a lot of people are scared, you know, they, they read the news and all they hear is about people doing crazy things and, you know, hurting themselves or others. And, and, you know, mild thing is, you know, it can get rough, don't get me wrong. You know, there are those bad times, a year. Things are scary, but I would try to let them know, you know, it's not always like that. You know, if, if people were there to help us support, US be there for us. You would see a lot less of these, a dangerous symptoms.

Duncan (12m 23s):
Yeah. But, you know, I, I know in the paper or if they have a, we see, I don't know if you remember that I'm this perfect can no way. He was supposed to have been a partner of Schizophrenia and he went, you know, to kill everybody. Occasionally when the news say it about once every two, three months, they'll be a story about Schizophrenia, he's killed alerted people. Oh, it's kind of like a, because you don't know, that's the process that you see, you don't see a Schizophrenia one art prize for best drawer. And, you know, you don't see the opposite side, you know what I mean? It's always the negative, the negative side until there is a negative side and there is the ignorance as well.

Duncan (13m 5s):
We'll try to think as much for our cause. Basically

Don (13m 12s):
It definitely doesn't help. Ah, you know, a lot of people really don't know the illness, you know, they hear about it. But when I tell them and explained to them what its like having this kind of a sickness, a lot of people are just like, wow, I never really knew. It was like that. You know, they either assume its like a split personality disorder or something like that. Or they just automatically assume that you're just some psycho who's needs to be locked away. You know? And I'm like, you know, it's, it's not always chaos and, and scariness you, you know,

Duncan (13m 47s):
Do you have a lot of fun with it? Do you have a, you know, play it up a little bit, you know, you don't see him to see that. Like you say, let's say it to be the psychos.

Don (13m 57s):
Well, there was, there was a, it can be kind of funny sometimes cause here in the United States, a lot of the mental hospitals have people who are recovering from drugs. So, and they'll put us together and we really don't know whose just recovering from drugs and who's there because they are having mental problems. So, you know, you'll notice that a lot of the people that are recovering from the drugs or the alcohol will drink coffee all day. And when I first got admitted into my most recent stay about a year ago, I drank coffee for the first morning just to kind of wake up. And so a lot of the people that recovering from drugs came over and were sitting around me and there were like, Oh man, you know, I'm recovering from this or that.

Don (14m 40s):
And I was like, Oh, these people seem nice, but bear in mind. It was still sick at the time. So unfortunately with all the noise of people talking, and of course the voices that were going on in my head, I got very frustrated and I just kinda like, I got irritated and I was like, you know, I need everyone to be quiet cause I can't keep all the voices from that are real. And that aren't real. I can't really tell which ones or which at this point and all the people around me at that point realized, Oh, he's one of the guys that are here for a mental issue. And they were really quick, all scared, you know, they were like, okay, let's kind of shift to the other side.

Duncan (15m 19s):
Yeah. So tell me about your voices. You just mentioned that. The tone me. Tell me what, what sort of tell me, just tell me about your voices. Let me try it.

Don (15m 30s):
It's it it's chaotic. They have evolved over time. When I was first sick, they would try to be people. I know like they would imitate my wife, my family members and stuff like that. They would like to play games. They would trick me to go into other rooms, mock me and make fun of me since then. It's changed now to where I'm, it's a lot more chaotic when I hear the voices. They it's a lot of them. I mean, when it happens, it's just, it feels like there's like 20, 30 people all trying to have a conversation with you and they're all fighting with each other off.

Duncan (16m 12s):
Okay. Did you, you talk about the illness as a sickness. So why is your ex or do you have any, do you just see the voices as just being you to a more functioning brain? I mean, or do you have, you know, we're not going to go to the delusions, but are we all Schizophrenia to have explanations? Right. So w what, what, how do you see the voices? What, what do you see them as well?

Don (16m 35s):
The, the voices are pretty easy for me. I just see it as an issue with a brain. I mean, obviously something's went wrong. I, I obviously don't know to, to what extent, but I think it's a thing it's definitely a brain issue. The voices for me are a lot more manageable than the delusions of the voices I've now learned. You know, if, if I start hearing them, I can listen to loud music that helps a lot to kind of drone them out. And just anything that I can to keep my mind focused, you know, I might play a video game. It helps me to really just zone in on what I need to do. And so I'm not so focused on what they're saying.

Don (17m 18s):
Yeah.

Duncan (17m 18s):
You like a video of things, right?

Don (17m 21s):
Yes. Yes. Oh yeah.

Duncan (17m 23s):
Yeah. I just want to, have you seen, or have you seen, or have you got to Netflix? Have you seen the show maniac?

Don (17m 33s):
I don't think I have,

Duncan (17m 35s):
Well, it is called Emma Stone and, and that guy from Superbad, a fat kid from Superbad, our company was like, well, he's really slim in maniac. And it is a about schizophrenia. It's a, you know, obviously it for drama, but its quite a while I was just one, you know, what, what, how do you see Schizophrenia portrayed and in the media? I mean, because it was about it, the reason for a mania because I've watched that last year, I thought was amazing and it really made me feel, yeah, this is good. This is like a positive, you know, it makes us look like as if we're, you know, when we're having a hard time, but there's a meaning to it and you know, there's something beautiful at the end.

Duncan (18m 25s):
You know, there's, there's not, there's not much out there like in film and TV. I mean what, what the hell did you see that? I,

Don (18m 32s):
So I think that, I think there's a couple of movies that, that do a good job on it. A, a beautiful mind is one that comes to me that that was a movie. That to me was a really relatable early on in my sickness. Cause it really shows the guy that, you know, this is a person that he went to college. He is like a top of mind, you know, just some guy who you see as the world ahead of him. And then he's just hit with the illness. It, you know, causes his life to go in shambles. But in the end he is able to over time, overcome it and kind of get it a maintained, you know? And I, and I think that's a, something that shouldn't be shown to.

Don (19m 15s):
A lot of people that have to be on this. A lot of people are scared. They don't know what to do. They think that it's the end, you know, they think there's no way that they'll ever be able to climb out of it. And I mean, don't get me wrong. You know, you're always going to have rough patches, but I think those kinds of movies are motivated.

Duncan (19m 33s):
Yeah. I th I think that's what we need. We need that inspiration, you know, that, that to me, because, you know, I mean I used to go to the day center and it can be kind of depressing. Cause I think from what I can go with you, that your, your coping very well, you know, I think you, you sound great. You got to get a handle on it. You, you know, I mean, So, that's kind of, I agree with you. You need to have the inspiration from fo just from, from the, from the world. Well, over the thinking, being scared of us, I think you get we're fighting through adversity, so yeah.

Duncan (20m 14s):
So yeah. Be a beautiful mind. Yeah that's a good film. And have you seen a few of the cookies in the us?

Don (20m 20s):
I don't think I have. I don't believe I have. I know like ones that I've seen that were interesting, obviously the more, the more famous than the new joker movie was one that I thought kind of pointed it out. And that's obviously on the opposite spectrum. I mean, when you see in that movie, a, this is a person who has lost his foundation, you know, he, he doesn't have the help, you know, when you see these people's that in the news do lose their mind and they unfortunately cause some sort of seen or heard themselves or others, it, it shows you that without that support, without people there to really help, you know, it can get scary, you know, and it can get dangerous.

Don (21m 6s):
And, and I think that was a good mood to show people as well, that, you know, you, everyone needs someone to lean on. And I, and I think a that's a good example of why that's necessary.

Duncan (21m 21s):
Yeah, definitely because I'm you actually, I did read that movie and I've watched the side of it as if you want us to give me total. This view is, which is a study a bit too thought for me. So I, I think I could still watch her later on, but I was thinking, I'll go to hell at the, I don't know if I could handle this because if you want, but because it is kind of the light that is kind of, it, it does, you know, it's not, I'm, you know, it's, it's a dog film. I've got to be prepared for it sometimes.

Don (21m 50s):
Absolutely. I when I went and saw it in theaters, I did not know it was going to be a movie that was folk focused around that kind of mental illness. I wish I would've known it cause you know, it, it was kind of tough to watch a, to C I try to look on the positive side of the illness and to see the dark side is pure as it was in that movie was, you know, definitely a shock to the system. But I think it is a site that in a way does need to be seen so that people can understand that, you know, people need help. And if you don't give them that help, if you, if you don't assist people, this is unfortunately the kind of things that can happen.

Duncan (22m 34s):
Yeah. Three, let me just quickly talk about your medication. What type of medication do you take and how has that changed over the last 15 years or so?

Don (22m 48s):
So when I first got sick early on, I was given a large amounts of a, I think it was called US Seroquel. And it just, it unfortunately made me kind of like a zombie. I mean, I really was not able to, to function. I was, I was just so slow on doing, talking and daily task and, and things like that. And eventually I came off of that medication and got put on a different one and then a different one and then a different one, you know, it just, we cycled through it. Each one kind of had a different side effects that were hard to deal with and now don't get me wrong for some people, the medicine works great.

Don (23m 36s):
And I am absolutely glad for that. For me, unfortunately, the medicine just didn't, it would numb the effects, but unfortunately we would also bring some sort of other drastic side effect with it. Now in days I, I take a CBD oil and that helps out tremendously with the deal,

Duncan (23m 58s):
But that CBD oil is the extract from the cannabis plant, which is not psychoactive. And from what I know is best to the fact is an anti anxiety. So do you take a anti-psychotic as well or just the CBD?

Don (24m 17s):
Well, I, I do not take any anti-psychotics I have not for probably a year and a half now, now don't get me wrong. I'm not saying everyone should not take medicine. Definitely medicine is helpful for certain people. It's just, for me, I went through so much of the medicine and it just never really, it never really helped the way I wanted it to, for me personally. So, you know, I tried the CBD oil to see if it would help now don't get me wrong. I still get sick. I still have my episodes, but it calms me down enough to really be able to kind of focus, to deal with the symptoms at hand.

Duncan (25m 7s):
Yeah. Because I'm, I don't know, American, you can get a CBD oil is different to a medical marijuana, isn't it?

Don (25m 15s):
Yes. Yes. I can't do. 'em like actual marijuana. So, you know, like smoking marijuana or anything like that, the THC factor of it causes my psychosis to go through the roof and causes way more problems than good. The CBD. It just, it relaxes you is that that's the way of putting it. It doesn't make you high in any way, shape or form, but it just, it calms you down and makes the world kind of a little bit more bearable.

Duncan (25m 45s):
Okay, man. Well, that's great. So that, I think, I think that we can call it a wrap that up. So just, I, I am going to play some music idea in my head so far are playing some techno music for you in closing here. Thanks for having you on. Oh, you sound very strong, man. You know, make clear and like every time, you know, eloquent, I think you're probably coping Mo the most, my percentage of people out there you're prepping, but the number, so, yeah.

Don (26m 19s):
Well, I mean, it's a big portion of, it was just the foundation. You know, I, my, my family really knows my illness. They help me when I do get sick, you know what I mean? They know what to do to, to help deal with it. But yeah, any, any time you want to do this again, or, you know, any of that, okay.

Duncan (26m 38s):
I've got to a website and I are going to a form on that. And at the moment, no, this is only the upset, free. Not

0 (26m 45s):
Many people have joined, but that will be a place that people can discuss the episode's. Okay. So hopefully you build an audience, give it to people and then we'll discuss the plant's raise in each state. That is, that's kind of why I'm looking for it would be fantastic.

0 (27m 51s):
That would be <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.