1 (31s):
Hello, welcome. I'm your host today? I have a great Petro, Victoria. Victoria is 45 years old and it's from Tennessee in the United States of America. So welcome to the show, Victoria, how are you doing today?

2 (54s):
I'm doing pretty good for the most part.

1 (58s):
Yeah, that's great. You know, I figured it takes a lot of guts to appear on camera to talk about this illness. So props to you. Yeah. That's, you know, it's, it's just great. Really. I'm just, I'm just, I'm totally, you know, happy to speak to a few today. So Victoria, why want to ask you the first question? Could you give us a brief background of your, your mental health difficulties? If we go back to the beginning, what were your first symptoms and how, how it changed the schizophrenia?

1 (1m 45s):
You know, how your psychosis began like to talk about that? I'll be fantastic.

2 (1m 58s):
Well, I don't know that anything to do with the fact that I had a bark at that, that only one nostril was open and they can't do surgery until I was about three to try to fake sat. I have memories that I didn't really have until I started getting more stable on medication in my thirties of just different things throughout my childhood. Like when I was really little, would have reoccurring dreams of like their figure chasing me dark shadows, just things that,

1 (2m 60s):
What it

2 (3m 0s):
Would put off as into daydreaming, so to speak. I believe my toys were real that I would see them real move around if things like that. And, and then trauma trauma throughout, throughout, you know, the, Yeah, kids will be kids and my sisters and one of my cousins actually stuffed animals.

2 (3m 46s):
And that really, yeah, they were my real friends and everything. And so then they were dead and No, I wouldn't have like things that I would later have wired for that. It didn't have words for the like, fill off how it flying with like some spirit or something with me.

2 (4m 26s):
What really happened for my experience, the doctors is that I did well hiding that I was no stranger, mentally disturbed. You know, I thought I was just a monster. And if anybody really knew me, they, you know, firmly away locked the door, you know, never, never turned back. I was 17 and I had to get my, my parents were very good Timmy and my sisters, we had everything we need wanting whatever, But there was a lot of bullying from one of my sisters and a lot of bully from on the bus.

2 (5m 38s):
I would ride every day, a lot of stress, the stress when I'm in stress, repeating a stress that fight or flight, you know, adrenaline, whatever, just, It gets me into that supersonic kind of, I call it more of a lockup oversew tree, sensory overload. I'm not making any future on that because I'm so nervous.

2 (6m 17s):
And it's hard to organize yourselves with the pressure of the 18. Yeah. At, at 17 had the stress of my grandmother passing away and both of us, his church stress of them being in weddings. And it was, I was fucking out of the 12th grade and I was just running around with the wrong crowd then. And just, I was still working in school and everything.

2 (7m 3s):
And it was just so much, I just had to get some help. And the doctor just diagnosed me as depressed. I really had not had that much symptoms. It Gadens and goes, you know, with me, I have the diagnosis. Finally, if I pull her one at about age 22, And that kind of explained a lot of things because I would have up for days sleep for days, time, routine thing going on the rapid faults.

2 (8m 2s):
I didn't know if I had voices or whether they were just me playing tapes over my head. I knew they, you know, I've always, You kind of dealt well with anything to be wrong with you. It's like, there's two sides of the coin you want to be well. And your mom plays with trying to tell you that you're well, and that you're not really, you know, mentally ill. And then you have the other side that tells you, yes, you are follow everything you're supposed to do and do it.

2 (8m 46s):
And it's, it's tricky. You have to, you know, I do a lot of, yeah, I was really lucky after, at 19 I met my H has that and we were together 13 years, married for 11, had two sons, a stepdaughter in teenage cases.

2 (9m 28s):
I've had very half net of times in my life. And then I've had times where I couldn't even look at a clock and read it. It's so Difficult to pinpoint exactly what's going on. And till you start getting to lots support groups and diving again, research and finding out about your illness and learning, it's no different than having diabetes or heart disease or anything else that has to be treated.

2 (10m 14s):
And that it's okay not to be okay. And so I've gone through, you know, thinking, well, maybe it's not schizophrenia, maybe it's a journal overload or, you know, maybe it try to be off medication, which sent me into a very Mess and I was homeless. And at the time family stuff thought it was my choices Ang, you know, didn't understand the middle of this.

2 (10m 55s):
I didn't understand the middle illness, you know, going on to Getting to a point where it, no, there was always chaos. Yeah. I didn't know if I Schizophrenia or just to the bipolar or what kind of, you know, I've, there's different periods of my life that have had different, you know, different and different, you know, could fall into different categories of what they call a mental things.

2 (11m 47s):
You know, there's, there's been times that my law, you know, but the schizophrenia started getting the worst where I was just detaching and from people, you know, I was friendly with everyone, but I wasn't very close to anyone in my teenage years, preteen, lot of vending, imparting, constitute bullying from family and peers. It just started, you know, suicidal thoughts and just, just to over wellbeing, you know, emotional,

1 (12m 52s):
I think it's opinion. It's I think it's great. I just think it's great that you have kids, you know, I mean, that's a, that must be a real blessing for you.

2 (13m 4s):
Oh yes. My oldest just got married of in November of last year when the boys were nine 11, my biggest mental problem came about that thought my husband had tried to poison me and it was some emotional abuse and some other types of abuse and ended up going to a domestic violence shelter and just S I had let them go with family and to be kids for the summer.

2 (14m 4s):
Me and my sister, there was always an antagonistic thing with my was one of my sisters. You know, my husband would always say, you know, if you, if you leave me, I'll fight you for the kids. Your parents will thought me and then Becky you'll end up with the kids, you know? And that was like my worst fear because being her head so that she Teijen and can get on the same page, she is an amazing, wonderful, caring being.

2 (14m 46s):
We just didn't see either way. We carried out things and it just escalated to a point where I had a suicide Kia. I had taken out all the pills. I was on so many medications and, and take a ton of, and to, and walked up to the, was from my parents' house and went to lay down. And I know it was an act of God that he walked me back up and I walked back out of the, was about the time she was arriving with, with rescue and since, and not fighting for getting the charcoal to get everything out of our system.

2 (15m 47s):
I had, like I said, suicide felt from the top. I was know five or six really first, really had a plan and intent to do something that really at 16, I've had a couple of to medication my medications and just happened to wake up the next day and go about my business.

2 (16m 28s):
Like nothing, nothing you'd have it because, you know, Ted even do that. Right.

1 (16m 34s):
No, you know, Victoria, I think with you, you just power through, like, you've had your family, you had your kids, and then, you know, it's going to happen that you have these sorts of crushes and dramas. Do you know what I mean? It's like the mental illness is there in the background and it's making things 10 times worse, but your, you know, you're busy with life. I think, you know, I mean, that's the impression I get with you, you know?

2 (17m 7s):
Yeah. I mean, I've been through thyroid cancer, I've been through, you know, part of the, the worst of the voices and the other Tory staff was when I was 20 to 23, I had had a miscarriage before I had my son. I was pregnant with my first son when I was 21. And I would always hear a baby cry all the time when there wasn't a baby crying and I never told anybody about it until your laugh.

2 (17m 47s):
And I, you know, he would be there and I would be looking at him and I mean, he'd just be, have the V kiss, a little thing, you know, and just be completely okay. You know, my, my children have, they're my saving graves. You know, I've also been diagnosed with narcolepsy, but some, I just went to the sleep doctor again, because you know, everything is such a, I wouldn't say it's, the balancing is more of a ways and measures kind of thing.

2 (18m 31s):
You know, we, I go up with the weight to get, get on the middle and then had to focus on the physical and losing weight. And sometimes that comes up with going back on a different medication that doesn't treat all the schizophrenia right now. I'm, I'm positive panic yet. It works the best for me. You know, it's the only FDA approved for schizophrenia, I believe. And I know of, and it requires a blood test every week for the first six months. And I only have one vein that has seen me through the cancer and the birth defects and the two emergency since Varian's and blah, blah, blah, blah, you know, through life and donating blood at times and everything.

2 (19m 25s):
And it's just so hard to during the blood work. That's why I gave up last time I was on it. I was on yet. I was on a plant-based product called plexus. And on top of that, and I was on that, you know, I was able to attend church regularly without any religious off the date, because I have a whole lot of that, you know, Elvis see visions. I would see the pages, words on the pages where you're ranked, reading the Bible, you know, all the time, have no patients being given to humanity for a while longer three times, you know, it saved the world three times, you know, for being on a God trail.

2 (20m 32s):
You know, I kept cutting off going back on the medications after I left my ex husband, because I wanted to see if it was just the chaos and everything. And after a while, it was so severe hallucinations, either Tori visual, that I was just walking around the streets and, you know, there was no bringing me back down to reality. I was on a reality show with God, you know, and supposedly the mayor had cameras everywhere, recording everything.

2 (21m 21s):
And, you know, it was just some of the best towns in my life because I was so close to God. I had, I'll never forget. I had finally decided to stop being a bag lady and I threw away all, but, you know, gave away and threw away all my belongings I had then, you know, carrying around, walking around. And I just, my last thing was my bank card. And I put it in the, and I had two gift cards that got to give to my nieces, but I ended up putting them in the mailbox of a church.

2 (22m 16s):
And, you know, I was giving everything to God and I was so close to God and everything seemed so at peace and the first contentment I'd ever had in my life, really,

1 (22m 30s):
No, Victoria, I was just going to say that schizophrenia delusions are sometimes terrifying, but I can also be like what you experienced, you can experience elation and euphoria. And sometimes I can relate to what you're talking about in the spiritual sense as well. You know, I think that is, that's a part of it. A lot of people with schizophrenia go through a spiritual crisis or feel closer to God, you know, because it is such a tough journey.

1 (23m 10s):
And, and I think it's just part of it, you know, the spiritual side, you know, and, and I think, you know, that's just fantastic. You know, I was, I was going to say something else. I'm going to say, I can't remember now, but anyway, kind of carry on with what you're saying.

2 (23m 32s):
Well, knowing that I Ended up, I've been the hospital so many times and, you know, there was no help for me left, you know, pretty much saw everything. And anyways, it just, you know, it divine act that I've gotten the right help that I have. It's been a journey. You know, it took a lot of just keep pushing to research the bipolar shove out.

2 (24m 18s):
God helps me so much just raising the bar a little bit more and more has helped so much, you know, I still have, that was draw to myself because that's just how I have to do it. At times I get that sensory overload. I mean, it's just like, I'm picking up too much. And I start things, start interacting with me and, you know, everything means something when

1 (25m 4s):
I just want to say to like, what you're describing that to me is psychosis. And I believe that psychosis is a localized event. What I mean by that is it's not just your, your yourself, it also, your local environment is in tune with refute. And that's why we experienced so many synchronicities. So many things that the reality seems to be strange it's because psychosis, I believe is a local event, you know? So that makes total sense, you know, because at the end of the day, we're all made of the same matter long way. I'm all connected by spirit. So it does make sense, you know, when you think about it, I mean, so many people say that they go through like a, like what you're talking about, sensory overload and everything is connected in the local environment.

1 (25m 59s):
That just makes me believe that this is the case, you know,

2 (26m 3s):
From my experience, those that I've talked to, that I know from mental health support groups and just friends and everything that have, you know, schizophrenia test that it is, you know, a lot of people have tunnel vision. They just see theirselves and what's in front of them and everything. And I've noticed that a lot of the schizophrenia, we, our view as like majorly out there, you know, we're over hot and sensitive, I guess that's where I've worked through a lot of the paranoia, but the, no, I'm not that special. And I nobody's really paying that much attention to me and no, that's just, you know, I've, I've done so much cognitive work and trauma work and recovery work and just being on the cause of pain that works right now, I've been on it again for six months when I was saying, you know, I had to quit taking that last time because of the blood work, not being feasible, it's so hard to get to, I couldn't keep it up.

2 (27m 16s):
So I had to get on something else, but I've had, you know, it's just, if what works and tell them that caused the pain and places, which is probiotics and prebiotics and worked the best for me, because I'm learning with a lot of the new information with, you know, so much of our brain is that through the gut and the neuro-transmitters and everything, you know, also a lot of the symptoms I believe of schizophrenia may not just be schizophrenia.

2 (28m 3s):
I mean, they, some of the symptoms are the same things for, you know, like Amit diseases, you know, you can look at there's lots of correlation, everything image in between with even Alzheimer's and stuff. And I'm sorry, I try not to

1 (28m 29s):
Victoria effect. I think we probably got to take a wrap now. We'll just, we'll go back one at a time, but you know, you've made some great points. I think you've got a, you've got a lovely life with your family and you've gone through a hell of a lot with the, with the mental illness, you know, sort of fight it's that ongoing battle. And it just just shows you what a tough battle it is. And I just want one year to keep fighting and just keep going, because you know, you're an inspiration and I figured doing really well. And I'm just like, so, so grateful that your, you told your story today, you know, it was a real pleasure.

2 (29m 14s):
Well, I'm glad I finally got to, sorry. It took so long to finally get with it.

1 (29m 18s):
That's absolutely fine. Okay. That's why, why I want to ask you is what type of music do you like? I always add some music on the, on the episode that, you know, any, any particular type that you like,

2 (29m 36s):
Well, I'm into the sea from the South, you know, you had grew up with a lot of country. There's a Tim McGraw, humble and con is one of my favorites. I've been listening to a lot. Like, I'll see what I can do. So I just want to thank you again, Victoria. You're strong.

0 (30m 6s):
<inaudible> stay right here with you when you fall until it all breaks down. So I will stay around when you're <inaudible>.