1 (35s):
Schizophrenia. I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today, well, this evening I have Al and Al from Bosnia he's in his early thirties and last year was diagnosed with schizophrenia. So our welcome to the show. How are you doing the same?

2 (55s):
Hi, thank you for having me. I'm doing fine. I'm glad to be a part of your show. I really like your idea.

1 (1m 2s):
That's fantastic. Thank you. Oh, I want you to tell us about your mental health journey from the beginning, what you went through, how were you treated? And Bosnia, if you'd like to talk about that, that'd be fantastic.

2 (1m 19s):
Well, actually I think I inherited this condition from my mother. She was diagnosed in her twenties and I've been actually told, I acted, you know, weird way, even as a baby, you know, I wouldn't wouldn't laugh or cry. I would just stare at one spot. So I also exhibited strange behavior growing up as a, in my elementary school, in high school. And, but I think my symptoms skyrocketed in my late teens when I was like 17 or 18 years old, but I never taught that I had schizophrenia.

2 (2m 11s):
I, I just thought I was, I was a normal, I was living a normal life. I never wanted to be like my mother. I thought I was, I was a bad. So I actually signed up for uni. I enrolled in a uni and I got kicked out because of my strange behavior. I made an incident once and I got kicked out, but later I started in another union. I actually managed to finish it somehow. And then I was unemployed for a few years, and then I finally managed to find a job, but I was also kicked out because also I exhibited strange behavior and I kinda harassed my colleague.

2 (3m 0s):
And so I got fired, which led to my first suicide attempt. And then I was admitted to the hospital and then I went to a psychiatrist and then I was diagnosed in 2009.

1 (3m 21s):
Okay, man, that's quite a tough history. You've had the, how, how are you coping at the moment?

2 (3m 31s):
Well, how should I put it? I'm pretty fine. I, I accepted it. I accepted my destiny and I'm trying to, to live a normal life as much as I can, even though it's not, not, I'm not doing greatly at the moment, you know, just having these a strange ideas and so forth. And it's hard to, to, to go to a psychiatrist because of the Coronas situation. Yes.

1 (4m 10s):
So do you want to talk about your strange ideas? You don't have to, if you don't want to.

2 (4m 14s):
Well, yeah, I had like everyone else, I had a lease delusions and stuff like that. The yearly earliest one I can remember is that, like I had a, some kind of a computer in my brain that it was doing calculations and telling me stuff to do with it, or I don't know. I thought I was, I thought everybody was in love with me or everybody hated me or stuff like that. Just like the basics.

1 (4m 42s):
Is it important? You know, these are illusions, but these experiences I think, is important to talk about them because we don't get a chance in normal everyday life to do that. Because even today I had a delusion, I fought that aliens. What hacking my phone and put playing a joke on me. But later on in the evening, when I calmed down, I realized that it was just a mistake I made, you know, but I, when I w I did, I did I, and I'm, you know, I'm older wise now, but I still had that delusion and the skill scary.

2 (5m 24s):
Yeah, definitely. I mean, the, the, when you get older, you, you somehow learn how to recognize it and snap out of it. You know, like when I was younger, I, I, I would, my delusions will last for like years and now the last for like an hour or two, because I, I managed to snap out of it somehow, because I know that that I'm gonna get in trouble for thinking like that eventually. So you kind of learn how to a snip out of it. I guess you get older and wiser and have more experience with it.

1 (6m 6s):
Do you want to tell us about the feelings you had when you were younger? When you had a delusion? What it felt like?

2 (6m 13s):
Well, it didn't feel like anything abnormal, you know, you just felt like I thought everybody had it. I thought everybody else taught like that, or everybody else had a computer in their brain or something like that. So it was just a normal part. Part of my, of my personality. I thought, I even thought I was, I was a smarter than everyone else. So it's not like the The stuff like that hurt me in any way, because I was totally obsessed by it. It's like, I never told her that it was an illness or something like that,

1 (6m 58s):
But I think is important to hear your experiences. What, what, how did you feel in hospital and that, and the way you treated?

2 (7m 12s):
Well, that was a really short treatment. It's not like I was treated for a mental illness. I was just treated because I, I overdosed on the medicine. So I was given I V and stuff like that. So I wasn't treated for schizophrenia. I was just given, how do you call it? Like a paper to, to go to a psychiatrist after that? So I went to a psychiatrist on my own because I knew there was something wrong with me. I just, I sit, sat down and, and I re-examined my life. And I realized that there was something wrong.

2 (7m 53s):
And so I went to a psychiatrist and that was it.

1 (8m 2s):
How is the psychiatrist?

2 (8m 6s):
It was pretty bad. I didn't think she was really interested in hearing my problems or finding the solution. So they mostly work based on, based on a template. So it's like, Oh, okay. This and this here, try this medicine next. You know, I was just like a, just one of hundreds of people. So it's not like took her time to really listen and, and helped me.

1 (8m 41s):
But, you know, in my experience in England, yeah. Ingrid the great, great country. Even the psychiatrist we have in London, they're not a great man. They just, they just, okay. Yeah. You're hit, you're hallucinating, have a higher dosage, or you're feeling too drowsy, cut the dosage down, you know, it's like anybody could do it. Right. They don't, they don't say, okay, well, you know, I think, I think there's much more, there's much more finesse to it. If they really wanted, they could say, okay, well, there's these, this new atypical and psychotics that have come out, we want to try you on Latuda.

1 (9m 28s):
If you, if you get any side effects, we've got some medication for side effects that don't say that they just, they just make me take the same old medication year off the year and all they can do to change the dosage. You know, it's, it's terrible. It's horrendous. Absolutely.

2 (9m 45s):
Yeah, definitely. I agree. But I don't hold grunge a grudge against them. It's like, they have a lot of work. They're overworked, underpaid. They, you know, they have hundreds of patients. It's a free healthcare. So it's like, like not like you're going to get to the best out of the best. If you want best, you probably have to pay for it. I, I know what you mean. Like I went with my mother and she had a, she had severe side effects from her medicine and they didn't care. They just said, well, what can you do and why? And I actually read it the side effects of the medicine.

2 (10m 27s):
And so it's like, it can lead to death. So I personally started looking for another solution. So maybe another psychiatrist, maybe a different medicine, or maybe reducing the dosage and stuff like that. So you just have to have to accept that it's a free health care and you're not gonna get the best, best service. And you have to find solutions of your own sometimes. Yeah.

1 (10m 55s):
I suspect, I suspect that it's probably more advanced in America, you know, I think because that's the way they, that's where the hell happens. You know, I suspect like in, if say if you went to a psychiatrist in New York, I bet you they're pretty good. I reckon.

2 (11m 15s):
Well, probably, you know, The, the Western society is definitely more advanced, especially compared to Europe and Eastern Europe. Like first of all, a, in my country, personally, mental health is a great taboo. So if you are a mentally ill, you are seen as a alien or a, I don't know, a monster or something like that. Not, not just schizophrenia, but generally. And schizophrenia is like the most, I don't most infamous disease ever in my country.

2 (11m 57s):
They call it a cancer of the soul. So you can imagine what people think about. And, you know, the first of all, the great difference is in treatment. But the first thing that, that, that is kind of like the same in America in Europe is the detection of the stillness, the diagnosis. So there, there aren't any mechanisms of detection in a, in schools, in, you know, in hospitals, police department and so on. So it's hard to, to, to determine who is mentally ill from schizophrenia.

2 (12m 41s):
For example, if, if a student is acting strangely in school, it's highly likely may, maybe he's who has schizophrenia, but nobody is going to like help him in any way. That's a, this is my personal experience. So, you know, I was always treated as a clown or a weirdo or a alien or something like that. So first of all, there isn't any mechanism of detection. It is the same problem in, in advanced societies, progressive societies and other ones, you know, but the second thing is actually the, the treatment treatment is much better in a Western world.

2 (13m 32s):
I think the, there, the medicine are better. There are a lot of different medicines, but a psychiatrist. And there was a lot of, there is a lot of support, you know, from society like employment programs. There there's none of that in Bosnia, there is a disability, there isn't any disability in both. I mean, there is, but it's really hard to get a, and it's negligible. You get like, I don't know, $50 a month or a, a a hundred dollars a month, which is, which is nothing.

2 (14m 12s):
And the only thing that helps in my society at least is the, the, the support of family, friends, people who are close to you. So th that's a little bit of a difference in Boston is that friends and family are more likely to support you. Everything else is a disaster, but I think globally, it's going to change, I think, is going to, going to get better because there, there are no new treatment options and people are talking more about it. And there are many, a scientific researchers and so on. That'll help.

2 (14m 52s):
Yeah,

1 (14m 52s):
Man, you've got a good, you know, you come across is like, as like a really good man, you know, I wouldn't call you anything like the words you've described. You know, I mean, I think, I guess it's maturity as a male. You and you, you become so of an observer of your own life. If I, if you know what I mean?

2 (15m 18s):
Well, to be honest, maybe I'm, maybe I'm a little bit exaggerating as well, but you have to realize that, you know, my society, Boston is a society it's pretty conservative. You know, it's, it's a little bit, we could even call it the backwards. So when a person has like these, some strange views, strange ideas, they're better accepted in, in for example, in America, you know, it's a pretty progressive society. And when you have a little bit of America, what, excuse me.

1 (16m 2s):
Yeah. Eat in America, America, I would say, yes, it's progressive. Even, even England, you know, is still, we're still struggling with this. You know, I would say that there's a lot of movements, but it's, but schizophrenia is not often talked about. It's like the forget a mil for gone illness. Nobody really likes to talk about it. So

2 (16m 33s):
Yeah, I guess a European societies is generally a similar, all around compare to like America in Canada. There are a little bit more progressive.

1 (16m 49s):
Oh, you know, I think, I think we're going to wrap this up early because we're having problems, but I want to ask you to say, is there anything else you'd like to say that we haven't covered yet?

2 (17m 2s):
Well, I actually want to talk about my future. Well, right now it's like, I'm having this. I have this wish. So say actually I want to, my plans for the future is I want to have a more on my own apartment and just to be able to hold down a job. So I'm working on it, but I'm actually, I'm being, I'm a whole hell down by cognitive problems.

2 (17m 46s):
So what I actually wanted to, to emphasize is the, the problem of, of, of, you know, cognitive problems in it's a phrenia, they tend to get worse as you, as you get older. And that's what I'm struggling with now. And, you know, I just, I'm too confused and forgetful and I, I find it hard to focus and stuff like that. So, so being able to help hold down a job is pretty much impossible, you know?

2 (18m 28s):
So that's what I think that research is. Schizophrenia is going to, it's going to have to go in this direction to help many people struggling with this disease and a PR the problem is, is that the medicine doesn't tell what it, you know, medicine only helps with positive Simpson symptoms, hallucinations and stuff like that. So that's what I actually wanted to emphasize.

1 (19m 7s):
I can tell you something. When I started my job of the seven years of unemployment, it was really hard, but my brain got sharper. You know, my brain got sharp of when I was doing the job, you know, because I had to think I had to concentrate, you know? So I think, I think you just have to be brave and just go for it. And then you, you We, you you'll find that you'll find strength. You know, you'll find strength that you can actually do it and, and, and conqueror, and your brain will get stronger.

1 (19m 47s):
You know,

2 (19m 48s):
W what I, what helps me is that I exercise and I eat healthy. And I think that's my advice for everyone else, struggling with this disease, it's imperative to exercise and eat healthy. That really helps with all of the symptoms, even with the side effects of schizophrenia. Like sometime you still get, get anxious or depressed or stuff like that. And it really helps exercising.

1 (20m 22s):
Yeah. The exercises to help you. Definitely, those are important factors, but you know, something, I just got annoyed that there's a lack of good role models for people with schizophrenia disorders. And it's just frustrating. And I just, I just want to improve the image of schizophrenia and give, give who have a diagnosis. I just want to give them hope, you know, that they can, that they can be something bad and what they done, what they might be thinking about, you know, they can, they can achieve what they want to achieve if they really just go for it.

1 (21m 4s):
You know,

2 (21m 6s):
You know what I think about it, it's like a, the main reason we are so ostracized by society, because society is so one dimensional, you know, a, the only thing that is respect is like the average Joe, you know, The the guy who has a good average job with two kids, wife, housing in the suburbs and everything that it's different than that is a way of abnormality. I think we, we have a person's with schizophrenia. I think we have some, some unusual gifts. I think the guy, the first guy for me Interview is Frank talked about it a little bit, that we have like maybe a gift to communicate with a spiritual world, something like that.

2 (21m 57s):
There was a lot of talk about it. A lot of people talked about like Terence, McKenna, Alan Watts, and so on. So I think we should embrace our, you know, extent Tricity that the fact that two are, we are different. We have a different way of thinking, and I think that's a society should also accept us as different people. You know, I think we have some, some, some kind of maybe could help people in some way. And definitely, I think whenever I, I embraced my weirdness, my centricity, I was happy.

2 (22m 41s):
And I would say I was even better accepted by people. And whenever I tried to be like an average, Joe, I just failed miserably. So I think that society shouldn't really be focused too much on treating schizophrenia and making us turning us into average. Joe's maybe just a little bit, you know, but I think it should also learn how to accept us, because I think we are unique in some way.

1 (23m 14s):
Yeah. If anything, we can open the minds of just regular people, you know, that, that, that schizophrenia people with schizophrenia experience Bananarama, which is beyond current accepted norms, you know, you know, what we experience is, you know, it is so strong. You stop there, you know? So I, I think a lot, I mean, spirituality, whatever, you know, I think, I think people could learn about it because at the end of the day life pretty short life gets fast. Life can go pretty damn fast and we don't, we don't stay on that forever. We go somewhere else.

1 (23m 55s):
And so that's the end game. So perhaps gets the people with schizophrenia, have a slight advantage in the end game because we, we experienced this stuff before, before we, before we die, you know?

2 (24m 14s):
Yeah, definitely. I think we have some, some sort of unique brains, you know, it it's, we understand reality and we observe reality from a, from a different perspective. I think that people should actually learn how to appreciate it. Sometimes we are not a hundred percent lunatics or something.

1 (24m 36s):
Yeah, man. Okay, man. Well, let's talk it out. What, what Music do you like that I can add up to the end? What kind of do you like electronic or rock or pop music or a club?

2 (24m 48s):
Should I give you like a specific song or just a music genre? Well, yeah, you can, you can electronic music or a house, some kind of house at the end. Yeah. Something like a happy dance to, or something like that.

1 (25m 10s):
Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. You know, I would love to speak to you again, perhaps if we, maybe the next year, if you've got a computer, we, you know, we have a proper Interview, you know, if you're interested, it'd be fantastic to speak to you again, it was a pleasure to speak to you tonight. I think you have a lot, some interesting insights and it just adds to the, the, the, the spectacular discussion that we're crazy. You know, I think, you know, it's just, we just need to get, we just need to talk about what's inside of us from having this unusual disorder.

1 (25m 51s):
So absolutely a pleasure to speak to you.

0 (25m 54s):
Thank you for having me. I really liked your show and giving you a chance to express <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.