0 (44s):
He was an Oklahoma and his diagnosis of schizophrenia with generalized anxiety. So welcome to the show, Brandon, how you doing today? Doing well. How are you? Yeah, I'm doing pretty well as well, actually. Yeah, the weather's getting warmer here. Escape a bit more. There's a bit more sunlight then. We'll sunshine. So that's all good. Really? <inaudible>

1 (1m 12s):
Yeah, we ju we just had a blizzard, so it's where today's the first warm day or yesterday was pretty worn too, but that the, that the snow actually has a chance to thaw out. So

0 (1m 25s):
Yeah. Yeah. We had a little bit of snow for about couple of weeks, but hopefully that's the end of it. Yeah. Okay. So let's just dive in. So Brad Walden asked you is if you can give us a brief history of how your mental health journey began, what were your first symptoms? How old were you, you know, how did you go to the medical system? How, what happened that you saw a doctor, you know, any troubles that you had, anything you'd like to say about your journey up till today, you know, about that would be, if you could just talk about

1 (2m 1s):
Sure. Yeah, I was, I was diagnosed around 30 saws relatively late to be diagnosed, but I didn't have any symptoms before then. I went through a stressful period where me and a girl that I was seeing long-term ended up breaking up and I was kind of distraught about that. And so it was that stress that sorta provoked my first psychosis. The psychosis lasted about six months and I had went to, I was, I was exhibiting paranoia, not so much hallucinations, but a paranoia and just, I wasn't thinking correctly for, I forgot what the name of that symptom is, but yeah, delusions and I, you know, they were pretty much textbook delusions, you know, persecutory, delusions.

1 (3m 3s):
And so

0 (3m 7s):
Expand on, on what you mean by persecutory delusions.

1 (3m 12s):
So there's, there's a list. You think you're being persecuted by something else and it could be, it could be, you know, like you think the government's after you, or you think that people are putting, you know, stuff in your house to watch you, but persecutory delusions or anything where you're feel like you're persecuted by some other. And so I was exhibiting those, I, you know, I thought people were putting things in my house to watch me. For some reason. I, I thought the government was after me later, I thought like witches were real.

1 (3m 53s):
And so they became bizarre. There's bizarre, non bizarre. So thinking the government's after you, even though it's probably not, that's more of a non bizarre because it's not, you know, supernatural or, or anything like that. And so most of mine were non bizarre things that you could improve or you couldn't disprove, but are just highly unusual or not unlikely, not unusual. And so, yeah, I ended up in the emergency room and they they'll ask you two questions every time. You're are you thinking about hurting yourself? No. And are you thinking about hurting other people?

1 (4m 34s):
And like, I wasn't really making much sense. And so I didn't know what they were asking me, but I knew I needed help. So I was kind of, I forgot what the name of it is, where you're, you're kind of not in touch with reality. And so I said yes to that one, and that ended up me being in a, in a really high, I think I had a court order against me to, to where they had to take me. So I was, I was taken to a mental hospital in a police car in shackles, which is not great for your mental health.

1 (5m 16s):
And, you know, it was never dangerous to anybody or anything, but I just, yeah, that's, that's what ended up happening. I was taking that was in Tennessee, from North Tennessee to central Tennessee, about an hour and a half car ride.

0 (5m 32s):
And when was that? When, when was that? What year was that?

1 (5m 37s):
I wanna say like 2015, 20, 2015 or 2014.

0 (5m 43s):
So you were taking, I imagine because, because I think the mental health hospitals, what's these days quite high security on day.

1 (5m 52s):
Yeah. Especially if you tell them you might hurt yourself or someone else they'll put your, so ours was like a giant hotel, almost. It was probably 10 or 15 stories and I was in the very top of it. So because you're least likely to be able to get out that way. And it's the reason they put you on that and that's happened. So that ended up happening. I later I went to a, I was, I went live with family in Georgia until my delusions passed. Well, they didn't know if they were going to pass this time. Cause it was my first psychosis. And so I went to a much better mental health hospital in, in Georgia.

1 (6m 37s):
And so, yeah, that, that was much better. And then slowly my, after about six months, my delusions went away and I ended up going back to work and in Kentucky. So I went on FMLA, which is family medical leave act for six months, which they'll save your job and they'll use up all your leave that you have. But, you know, I was, I was almost extending past the allowable amount for that would six months. And so the, the medicine they ended up putting me on was <inaudible> risks.

1 (7m 24s):
They, it was the injectable shot for Risperidone.

0 (7m 29s):
Okay. Yeah. Once a month or something, isn't it,

1 (7m 35s):
It gets once a month. And then they ended up putting me on something else because that wasn't working and there was another injectable. And so that's what I was actually on when I went to it. I forgot the name of that. It's a, is in Vegas, a stand of the palpate own. I think it is.

0 (7m 53s):
I will Mitchell. I'm not sure what the most

1 (7m 56s):
It was. It was some other one and it was much more expensive and I can afford it. And so they didn't really think too well about that because my, my, my shot was like once a month or once every three months. And it was like 12 or $1,500. And, you know, I make okay money, but I couldn't afford that. So, you know, it's great American healthcare. I had insurance, they just didn't want to pay for it. And so I ended up going off the medicine for about a year and I didn't have any more, any more problems for that year until I ended up transferring overseas and working overseas.

1 (8m 43s):
And the stress of moving, I guess, caused another episode, but that one only lasted a couple of weeks. And since then I've been on Risperidone four milligram and that was, that's been, I haven't had any more psychosis or any more problems since then,

0 (9m 4s):
If it's not some old medication, isn't it? The w four milligram Risperidone is the top of that, isn't it?

1 (9m 12s):
Yeah. It's a tablet and it's much more affordable,

0 (9m 14s):
More affordable. Yeah. Because it's kind of strange because obviously in the UK, which is paid on 10 pounds a month for any medication that we want. But yeah. So I, you know, yeah. It's obviously, you know, if I had to pay a thousand pounds for my medication, I probably wouldn't be able to afford it, Eva. You know, that's kind of, it's kind of a, that's kind of ridiculous, really. I think,

1 (9m 45s):
I mean, I mean, schizophrenia are known for having really high wages and I probably had, you know, a full-time job and, and which is better than probably 95% of them. And, you know, and I had insurance and, and, you know, it's just, I can afford it. I, so like when you go, when you go off of work for six months because of psychosis, you know, you, I had, I had some money saved up for it. I just went through it all. You know, I had a house payment, I had a car payment and, you know, ruin my credit because like when I was in Georgia, I was going through psychosis.

1 (10m 26s):
So I wasn't really thinking about, you know, my water, you know, payment. And so like my water ended up getting cut off, which ruined my credit and just, you know, a bunch of things. So, you know, it can really ruin you financially not being functional for extended amount of time.

0 (10m 48s):
Yeah, that's true. There are financial implications about going through psychosis, for sure. I think it's quite, it's not just while you're talking about getting cut off for not paying a bill, there's also bad spending habits. And I just, things like that, which happened generally,

1 (11m 14s):
I think that, you know, a lot of people have bad spending habits that unfortunately I'm very frugal. So I, I might be extremely unusual, but, but like, you know, I'm, I'm very frugal, I think a lot about personal finance or read a lot about personal finance. And so that's actually, and I think it was my circumstance of like being flat broke almost. And, you know, after six months of psychosis that, that, you know, put that fear of that end may where I just didn't want bill collectors calling me again for a hospital bill, you know, of where I wasn't really, even in a right mind to make that decision to go in there, you know, and you know, like that, that hospital bill in like Tennessee, I think it was like 2,500.

1 (12m 15s):
And, you know, after that I hit a coat or I hit a max deductible. And so, you know, I went in the hospital probably six or seven, not six or so, probably four or five times and Torah. And each of those were free, but it's just, I don't know it was a mess,

0 (12m 33s):
But that's good that you are much more stable now, but I can tell it's still a big part of your life. You know, it's a, it's a big diagnosis has been a big experience for you as well. So what, what how'd you feel about your mental health now? I mean, how did you feel about it now? What would you do to make sure that you don't relapse

1 (13m 4s):
Mainly just take medicine is the main thing, like the Risperidone four milligram, it's a high dosage, but it seems to be doing really well for me. And I've never been one for like, you know, hallucinations, but the delusions, you know, I I've almost had every single one of those. It seems like over the, the amount of time, not to everyone, but you know, some of them, the main persecutory delusions. And so it keeps those away and that that's what's. So if you look at the DSM-V, which is the main medical book for psychological disorders, there's one for delusional disorder, which I see, I don't, I don't even see a psychiatrist now just because I live in such a small town that there's only one, but I just take the medicine and, you know, I talked to, I have a girlfriend that she lives in a different state, but we, we ended up talking quite a bit.

1 (14m 4s):
So that helps my mental health quite a bit. Just we're both very is, is weird as it sounds, we're both very logical and she's, she has, we were both in the same profession and she's a she's bipolar. And so when she's not having her episodes as well, like we're just both extremely logical. And so we get along real well because of that. So we kind of keep each other in check or at least I hope we do for, you know, you know, seeing if we're getting too far off and actually need more help than what we're currently have important because,

0 (14m 53s):
You know, having a support network is important. You've got your girlfriend, you know, what about, I just wondering what's going on a slightly different angle. So when it, how did your friends react when, when you went into hospital, you saw medication that they did your relationships change with your friends.

2 (15m 16s):
A lot of them, like my coworkers was mainly my main social group since I worked like 40 hours a week. And you know, like my parents or my mom, she really promoted getting help. She's had her own problems with psychological disorders, mainly postpartum depression that she ended up having depression continued after that. And so she takes medicine for that. My brother he's in the he's a fireman, but he's more like the paramedics for the fireman.

2 (15m 57s):
And so he, he does a lot of medical stuff and I mean, as much as he can understand about it, you know, he tried to help me with that. And so, you know, I don't know it was, they saw me during some like very dark times, but you know, like my more extended social group, the coworkers that I had, they just, they didn't know too much about it except for one. And they just saw me just kind of go away for six months and then come back. And, you know, I kind of had to come back. I had to have a doctor's note, but I needed the money financially to, to survive. And cause you know, my, my mom, she lives on social security, which is a government sort of assistance for working and, and you know, my brother, they make good money, but they spend most of it.

2 (16m 52s):
So, you know, and trying to get on my own disability. Like I luckily my, my mind kind of cleared up after a while and you know, I wasn't didn't have to go onto disability for long-term, but my just life was in shambles, bill collectors, calling for medical. You know,

0 (17m 18s):
I'm just wondering, because I think a lot of normal folk saying that not everybody gets clear headed, you know, a lot of friends do have delusions. What do you think separates normal <inaudible> lesions and people such as yourself who, who needed to see a doctor, you know, what, what is, what is the difference?

2 (17m 42s):
So especially when you get into like the world of politics, like my mom, she's only diagnosed with depression, but she's, she's, you know, she's very delusional when it comes to certain her political theories that she thinks, you know, conspiracy type theories. So I think there is some sort of link with that, but they don't go, you know, it doesn't consume them as much as like a delusion would me would consume me. So my delusions were just, I couldn't think of anything else, but those delusions during that time. And whereas my mom, you know, she can be perfectly normal on other subjects, but you know, if you were to bring up politics with her, she's, you know, she believes certain things that just aren't at all possible.

2 (18m 33s):
You know, they're just so out outlandish, but I, I think people do that, which she, she might not be the best because she's related to me. And so my, my mental health comes from somewhere and it, my PR, but I, you know, I've seen that with other people too, where they just, when it comes to politics, they, their, their ideas might be, you know, just not possible.

0 (19m 0s):
I think, I think it will say it's like what you said about causing harm to yourself or to others when it gets to that extreme level. That's when medics take you pretty seriously.

2 (19m 17s):
Yeah. But I mean, for me being in psychosis is totally different than me being, you know, in everyday. So there's, there's also a big dichotomy between, you know, the two different types of people that you can be. So I think like, you know, if you constantly think that people are out to get you or something, and it's not consuming you, then you just might be a conspiracy theorist. But if it, like, if you're logical in one area and then like, suddenly you think that, you know, witches are out there, then, then I think that would be different.

2 (19m 58s):
You know, I think that would be more likely to cause concern, you know? And that, that's just my be me. I mean, I don't know.

0 (20m 11s):
So that, I mean, I think if you want a good position, now you've gone through the hospitals, the hospital experience and taking your medication, which keeps you stable, your work in your employment, then you think, cause I know a lot of people that I interview and generally the statistics say that most schizophrenia people do not work. So do you find that working is a benefit to you? Do you think that helps?

2 (20m 41s):
I think, I think, you know, I always will because it's just me, but I think it comes to, to finances. You know, if you can't afford your medication, if you can afford, you know, good food or, you know, a healthy lifestyle and a stress-free lifestyle, you know, money helps with all of that and you get money from, and unfortunately in the States, you know, on disability you get maybe, you know, $1,200 a month, which just isn't enough to really survive in most areas. So I think money brings more, less stress, which, and that less stress, you know, allows you to not be an, a psychosis as much, at least in my circumstance.

2 (21m 30s):
Cause that was, that was a continual thing was, you know, I, you know, girlfriend breaks up with me, go through a psychosis, you know, I move halfway across the world and go through psychosis. So stress was a big factor in me going through psychosis and also not taking medicine. So now that, you know, I've moved since then and you know, I didn't go through psychosis then, but I was taking medicine at the same point.

0 (21m 56s):
Do you, do you consciously limit yourself now and for the foreseeable future about not putting yourself into environments, which would be too stressful?

2 (22m 10s):
No, not really. You know, I feel like I can do almost anything that someone else would do. I just, you know, I, I, I think the medicine helps a ton. Like I think if I was off medicine and this, like I moved about a year ago and I think that, you know, like my car broke or my, you haul a Burke down, I hit a big pothole and I totaled the U-Haul. And so it wasn't just a breakdown, but like, and I was stranded on the side of the road for like eight hours. Like that was a stressful event, but I still didn't go through psychosis. Cause I'm thinking that it's, you know,

0 (22m 52s):
How do you feel? How do you feel schizophrenia is portrayed in the media and how would you like to see it changed?

2 (23m 3s):
Well, a lot of people just don't understand it. So, you know, they get it, they get it like where you have split personality disorder. A lot of people think it might be that I, most people, they, I don't, I like, I still see it portrayed. I don't even know if it's true, but like when mine psychosis hits me, like I'm a completely different person, not dangerous. I still understand certain norms and, and things like that. But it's, you know, like, I don't know, like, like, so can I ask you a question? Like, does yours, does yours affect you all of the time?

2 (23m 44s):
Like, or is it, does it come in episodes and leave in episodes?

0 (23m 51s):
I mean, <inaudible>, I don't have to delete for lost about eight years. I don't have delusions, which are harmful to me, so I still, I just still can listen. I, it doesn't go away. It just, it's just that when I wake up in the morning and it's just something that I've got to deal with, but it wasn't always like that because what happened was I stopped taking medication for about one year and the symptoms came flooding back because I stopped taking the medication.

0 (24m 35s):
Cause I fought, I was better and I fall, if I stopped taking it, then I wouldn't have the side effects and I would be just normal. But I made a mistake. This was 2010 and the symptoms came back really bad and I had to get more medication. I was just, it was just horrible. So I ever since then I've been hearing voices all the time. So I think it was because I stopped the medication that it was a, it backfired on me. That's why I suspect. But yes, I mean, because it's one reason I did this podcast is, is because there's not, I just wanna, I just want to raise awareness and for, for this, for a few reasons, one thing at the moment, which I think is useful is for people, my cost who have the diagnosis who want to listen to something to show that I'm not alone.

0 (25m 47s):
That's number one. And then number two is for normal folk to get educated and to have awareness of the condition, because rightly say so many people have to grow like there of the illness. Like all you think it's like a dissociative disorder or that we're violent, we're by the lax murderers, you know? And so it's just a question of paying their costs that we're normal. People just have a diagnosis. This is what we go through and we go take medication for it. And you know, this is our story. So I think that is that's know, that's, that's what I think is important.

2 (26m 28s):
Yeah. I'm much more dangerous to myself than I'd ever be to anybody else even going through, you know, psychosis and yeah, I don't, I don't think a lot of people understand that and it's, I don't know what it is, but you know, my mind goes to very dark places when I'm in psychosis and I, and you know, it's like, you just want it all to stop, you know, whatever's going on. And it's, it's just that doesn't make sense.

0 (27m 1s):
I would imagine if you stopped taking your medication, like I did, you would probably have a hard relapse

2 (27m 7s):
Probably. And like that, that's the thing is where, what you talked about is you stopped taking it because you think you're better and then you find out you're not, or for me it was, you know, I couldn't afford it. I don't think anything's really wrong with me. I just thought it's something, I went through a really stressful period and, you know, I had like brief psychotic or bricks psychosis or brief psychotic disorder. And it ends up coming back and you know, like I'm, I'm lucky that my, my job, you know, they sent me back from the being overseas, but I still had a job.

2 (27m 48s):
Like a lot of people don't want to put up with that stuff and they'll find some reason to not, you know, not take, not, not continue your contract or whatever type of work you're doing. They'll they'll blame it. Oh, he's, you know, he's not doing something right. Yes.

0 (28m 7s):
That's the stigma discrimination. And I think it's so unfair. I have a law called the, the equality act and you can't disagree this discriminate against someone who has a long-term mental health condition, but it's so hard to implement because, you know, they could just say, Oh, well, is this wasn't up to the grade? Or he had these sick days. So we had to get rid of them. So germane site,

2 (28m 39s):
I worked for the federal government and they have certain laws that allow you to get into the system, which I've never had to use because I, I got into the federal government before I was diagnosed and it's called a schedule a, so it's mainly used for lower positions, but I'm in a more medium to high position, but it's, it can be used for medium high. I've just never seen it actually implemented correctly. And, but yeah, you know, like when I was overseas, like they decided not to continue my contract and, you know, was that probably some sort of discrimination? Cause I went through psychosis and they saw it probably, but like my chances of, you know, of, of proving that is rare, they could just say, well, he wasn't, you know, up to up to speed, but I was lucky that they actually continued me working.

2 (29m 36s):
And so they transferred me back to the States and I ended up working in the States and I'm still working for federal government.

0 (29m 45s):
Yeah. Yeah.

2 (29m 52s):
I mean, I mean, does that make sense?

0 (29m 55s):
Yes, it does. I know. So I was going to say it's probably better for you that you're working in your home country. Yeah. So while I was setting this up, I worked overseas as well, but it's more dangerous when you're overseas and you have a psychotic break because you don't have the system so well, and you're more vulnerable. So that's what I'm saying. It's quite better to be at home in your home country where, you know, the system it's a safer, I would say. Okay. Probably is the last two questions. The first question is, is there anything you'd like to talk about that I haven't asked you?

2 (30m 39s):
No, I don't think so. I've been just kind of freely talking. Is there,

0 (30m 45s):
That's good. That's why I want to hear. And the final question is what is your preferred type of musical January so that I can talk that music on at the end.

2 (30m 55s):
I like, I really like music that I like bluegrass a lot. There's a guy named Billy strings. I like, and I like blues. There's a guy named Marcus King and I like Chris Stapleton, which is country, but it's probably bluegrass if I had to pick anything. But I just like really good singers, really good musicians from those from almost any genre. But yeah, It is. It's a, it's kinda like a sub genre of most, most similar to country, but not pop country, bluegrass it's it's comes from the Appalachian area and there's, there's even a sub genres of it called new grass, which is more new alternative rock played with bluegrass instruments.

2 (31m 46s):
So yeah. Do bluegrass. Billy strings is, is a really good and bluegrass musician.

0 (31m 55s):
I've only got, I can't pay for food. I just want to say it was absolutely comfortable for me.

0 (32m 16s):
<inaudible>.