Duncan (26s):
Hello, this is Duncan, your host, for episode one of Interview with a schizophrenic. And I'm very happy to say that I've got Frank from New York with me. So we are both schizophrenic and we are going to talk about a schizophrenia and how it affects Frank how were his experiences, his symptoms and see how it goes. So Frank, can you first tell me if we go back to 2011, when you are diagnosed, what happened then and how were you diagnosed, what were you experiencing?

Frank (1m 5s):
Well, actually I was diagnosed in 2011, but I first started experiencing symptoms, paranoid symptoms in 2008. And actually I ended up quitting my job. I worked for a bank at that point and I started getting these ideas that the people that I worked with were saying these horrible things about me and talking behind my back and, and it led me to quit the bank, but I didn't really understand what was going on until much later I ended up, I guess this is probably a common thing with schizophrenia, but I ended up becoming, or getting into drugs to kind of deal with it, which is, it just made everything worse, obviously.

Frank (1m 56s):
But then you know, they kind of fed each other and in 2011 I was diagnosed actually, because I was in some legal trouble and the courts asked that I had some kind of a, a mental health examination. And so that's when I was diagnosed.

Duncan (2m 18s):
So when you were diagnosed, you had an examination with a psychiatrist?

Frank (2m 23s):
Yeah.

Duncan (2m 24s):
And, and how, how did the psychiatrist diagnose you? Did you have an assessment or how did you go?

Frank (2m 30s):
It was definitely, they, they asked me a ton of questions and I don't know, actually that was probably the first time that I was ever totally honest with a doctor as well. I think that, and this might be, you know, something you may have experiences with also, but kind of hiding, you know, your, your symptoms from people just cause, you know, I mean,

Duncan (2m 58s):
I think at the start, like for me it was, it goes against everything that we were conditioned to be as people, because, because, it sounds crazy, doesn't it, so you don't want to say this and that and it's so hard, but now I guess it seems easy, but back then it was so hard. Yes so carry-on. So tell me what are some, tell me about the symptoms. What were you experiencing mentally?

Frank (3m 24s):
Okay, well, I was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, so paranoia was a big part of what I experienced or experience. I guess I also had auditory what they called auditory hallucinations. I've since come to understand it differently in my years of experience, but I've also seen things kind of everything I've also, I don't, I don't know how exactly to explain it other than experienced coincidence is where I would see two things being connected that normally wouldn't be, but I would see it all the time, like ...

Duncan (4m 12s):
Synchronicities

Frank (4m 12s):
Yes. Synchronicity. Exactly. That was a big thing for me as well.

Duncan (4m 18s):
That is very scary isn't it?

Frank (4m 22s):
It is. And I think for a long time, I tried to believe that this was just, you know, my, my malfunctioning brain creating all of this, but actually the synchronicity part of it made it impossible for me to believe that. And I've, since I started seeking out my own spiritual journey and, and I think that, that where I am now.

Duncan (4m 55s):
Yeah. So obviously you are going for a tough time that you, you were working in, in 2008, you're doing a good job. Then the mental symptoms, you know, it started with you and then you got diagnosed with schizophrenia and you have the legal problems. So then in your life, your whole life changed. Right? So, I mean, I mean, tell me about that.

Frank (5m 22s):
Well, I mean, I spent a lot of time, pretty much the entirety of my twenties for the most part alone. I didn't understand what was going on. And it hasn't actually only been but in the past three to four years that I've really started to understand what I've been experiencing and I've been able to move forward and start building my life up again in a healthy way.

Duncan (5m 51s):
Okay, cool. So you told me, we've already spoken before, and you told me that you or your healer and you're in the spirituality. So why don't you tell me something about that, what, what are your spiritual beliefs and how does it relate to your occupation as a healer? Totally.

Frank (6m 11s):
Mmm. Well, I guess for a long time, I, I believed that what I was experiencing wasn't coming just from my disease mind, but that it was coming from elsewhere. And unfortunately

Duncan (6m 24s):
diseased mind man, I don't think it's not a diseased mind. It's like, you know, it's not that carry on, carry on.

Frank (6m 34s):
Well, the reason why I say it that way is because that's kind of what I've always been told by Western medicine. You know, you're not working properly, you need medication to work properly kind of a thing. And, and I really, I tried to be on board with that and I couldn't, I just couldn't after 10 years of what I've experienced, I, Ithere's no way that I could allow myself to believe that it was me not working properly. And so that's what I started seeking answers elsewhere. And I started developing my spirituality and understanding it. And you know, now as a healer, I'm level two Reiki, but I also do other things as well.

Frank (7m 19s):
I'm coming to understand how the universe works, how everything is energy and how there is much more out there than, than when we really talk about at this point in human evolution. And so I think that that as I've come to understand the universe better, its helped me to find reasons for what I'm experiencing and what's coming from. And that's helped me to deal with the stuff that I'm experiencing and to find healthy ways of dealing with those things that isn't necessarily just medications.

Duncan (8m 3s):
Yes. Okay. Frank, I'm going to ask you, are you experiencing any psychosis symptoms at the moment in your life?

Frank (8m 11s):
Mmm, that's a tricky question because I'm right now, I am not currently on any medication for the most part. My days are fairly positive. I have a few bad days here and there, but I've learned how I've learned really what psychosis is And and I think I'm, you know, from a Western medical standpoint, yeah. I probably do experience psychosis, but from my new found perspective, I, I see it more as being able to communicate like with my spirit guides or Angels

Duncan (8m 51s):
You know, you know, there is something I also believe in spirit guides and yeah, I I've, I'm also a student of spirituality as well. You know, it, I, it, it is quite, you know, it's a common theme for schizophrenia X to have to go searching for these answers in religion and in spirit. I don't know. I think it's fantastic that we both have this both has a desire to me to know more. So. Yeah. I mean, personally, I've got my new spiritual view of schizophrenia. You have, you have your own spiritual view as well?

Frank (9m 32s):
Uh-huh [yes]

Duncan (9m 34s):
I mean, what does it, I suppose for me, I sorta believe that the schizophrenic mind is attuned to spiritual phenomena. So like synchronicities, I believe that is because we're all connected in some way as a spirit.

Frank (9m 57s):
I also believe that. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think like, as you're saying, schizophrenia are just more sensitive to what is out there in the universe versus other people who may not be fully aware of everything that's going on around them.

Duncan (10m 18s):
So what about your life now? Is it tough coping as a schizophrenic in New York? You know, do you have to, do you have to do things too to make sure that, you know, you don't make yourself vulnerable, you don't put yourself into a situation where you can be uncomfortable. I mean, tell me about that.

Frank (10m 47s):
Well I'm from Colorado originally. And actually about four years ago, I moved here to New York by myself. And at that point in time, I was still using drugs and I was still very much confused by everything that was going on around me and actually being here by myself in New York, allowed me the opportunity to seek out my own answers. I think up until then when I lived in Colorado, where a lot of my family is, I was seeking out answers that were the answers they wanted me to seek out. You know, they, they were the one's that were like, Oh, you got to talk to a therapist, you've got to take your medication, you got to do all this stuff.

Frank (11m 30s):
And it kind of stopped me from seeking out my own answers. So actually moving here and being completely by myself and thousands of miles away from anyone that I really knew, allowed me to start seeking out my own answers. And that's actually been probably the most helpful thing to me.

Duncan (11m 49s):
Yeah. What is the system like in New York. Are you part of a mental health community? Is there like a drop in center. Do you mix with other mental health suffereres in New York?

Frank (12m 5s):
I definitely have. There's an office that I used to go to a lot of them, not so much anymore, but I also, I think I'm more connected to a group of recovering addicts that I found here through a group called smart recovery.

Duncan (12m 24s):
Do you want to talk about your drug use and how it relates to your mental health? That must have been quite a struggle in your life?

Frank (12m 34s):
Yeah. It was definitely created the most suffering that I've ever experienced. I think that they kind of feed each other as I'm experiencing these things as a schizophrenia sick and not really knowing how to deal with it and finding, I guess, some level of comfort in drugs, but then ultimately also just fueling things and making things worse and more negative. It's been, it's been pretty crazy. I think though that as I've entered into my recovery from my addiction problems, what I've learned in recovery has really helped me to understand my situation, understand who I am.

Frank (13m 25s):
And it's also lead to the development of my spiritual self and how I relate to the rest of the universe. And I think it's ultimately been worth it, I guess. So, yeah.

Duncan (13m 41s):
Do you know that some people like Graham Hancock, he talks about how psychedelic drugs are actually part of our evolution, as a history of the human species and that things like Ahyuhasca actually helps us connect with spirit or even, even if you take in Marijuana, it can be a spiritual experience, even smoking in a way has its roots in a spirituality.

Duncan (14m 24s):
If you look at the native Americans, there is that whole, the whole ethos is about drugs and spirituality. And you know, it, it kind of relates to schizophrenia as well because, because you know, really schizophrenics are attuned to the spiritual phenomenon. And also there is that link to Shaminism in the past as well.

Frank (14m 51s):
Definitely actually on my website, I'm working on a blog post about drugs right now and spirituality and how, what I've come to see is that certain drugs like marijuana, like Ahyuhasca like Payoti, they have a tendency to raise your vibration, to connect you more to the higher spiritual realms, whereas drugs like heroin and methamphetamine, well actually lower your vibration significantly, which will connect you to much lower spiritual realms where negative energy thrive in exists, demonic energy, if you will, if you want to call it that.

Frank (15m 37s):
And that's actually been something that I've come to understand as a schizophrenic and a drug addict and who is now in recovery from both.

Duncan (15m 48s):
Okay. so you talked about the drugs and schizophrenia. Well, I mean, let's go back to the schizophrenia and what do you, do you have hope for the future? I mean, does it, because it can be, you know, it's a tough battle having this illness, you know, what keeps you going? What drives you is that, you know, is it the spirituality you come to New York, you know, so that you obviously quite a while you want to be there in the middle of the things you want to be in the center of things, you know? And so I think that your, your, probably the type of person who, you know, you want to be involved, you want to be there in the scene.

Duncan (16m 30s):
I think

Frank (16m 32s):
I'm sorry. I think we had some technical difficulties. I just caught you beeped out. And I caught just the very last into what you just said.

Duncan (16m 39s):
Okay. So basically what I'm saying is, well, how did you see your future as you know, with schizophrenia? I mean, are you hopeful for the future?

Frank (16m 52s):
Yeah, definitely. I, I no longer see schizophrenia as a curse, as something that is detrimental to my health. I've learned what it is at least as far as my experience goes and I've learned how to deal with it and how to use it to my advantage. And so now I I'm, I'm very much grateful that is something that I experienced because it helps me to be a better healer. It helps me to help other people. And that's really what I'm dedicating my life to is helping others.

Duncan (17m 27s):
Yeah. I think they are. I think people, who do go through a lot of, I guess, mental or emotional pain do seek to help others after that. It's kind of like a, it's a journey I think, and it's not, it's not a question or as simple as saying, Oh yeah, anybody can look after people, you know, because a lot of people don't, a lot of people did not look off the people and there's a lot of people who are lonely and suffering. So yeah. I mean, that's, I feel that's great. I think that's fantastic.

Frank (18m 7s):
Yeah. I think my experiences have, has shown me how I can help people. I guess. I, I feel like everything that I've gone through has kind of been almost a training program of sorts so that I can understand the unit in the way that I understand it now. And, and you know,

Duncan (18m 27s):
You know, that that's, I think of the same thing. I think the same thing sometimes.

Frank (18m 31s):
Yeah. Yeah. And I feel like, you know, I've gone through all of those now. I know everything that I know. So I have all this knowledge, what am I going to do with it as well? Because we're all connected, you know?

Duncan (18m 44s):
<garbled nonsense> Oh, okay. So why are you living in New York? Because, you know, I think you want to be a part of the scene, I get a sense if you don't want to miss out and things you want to be in the middle of the famous, right. I mean, what, what was the decision to move to New York?

Frank (19m 3s):
It was definitely part of it. I think I had visited New York twice before I moved here and kind of fell in love with it and things weren't really going well, that well for me in Colorado. I think I moved here for a bunch of different reasons, but ultimately I think this is where I'm supposed to be. The City is definitely more of my speed. I'm definitely a go person and this city is nothing but going. So I think that I fit that plus there's, there's always something around the corner that's weird and interesting.

Frank (19m 44s):
And I think being here affords me the opportunity to meet and experience people from all over the world. I mean, you know, there's so many different cultures that clash here, and there's so many different people with different beliefs. It's, it's a wonderful actually.

Duncan (20m 5s):
Okay. So what, what, in terms of the schizophrenia, how do you, I mean, yes, your, you got diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. How would you see yourself? How, how has your relationship with your family and your friends, how did that change? Did your friends change? Did your family treat you differently?

Frank (20m 25s):
Yeah. I think my family, they, they don't understand the mental health part of it. And when things were at their worst and things were just crazy and very negative, they didn't understand it and I didn't know how to be around them. So I kind of removed myself from my family experience from all of my friends. And like I said before, I think I spent pretty much 10 years just kind of on my own by myself, trying to understand this. And it's been great though, because in the past what, two to three years, as I have gotten better and have come to understand things in a different way, my I've been able to reconnect with my family.

Frank (21m 17s):
And it's almost like everything's normal again. It's pretty cool.

Duncan (21m 23s):
Okay. Good. Well, that's good. Yeah. So, I mean, what, w what would, how would you say, I mean, we were talking about earlier, the schizophrenia has a quite bad image. I mean, what, how do you feel we can change the, you know, w what would you want to tell people listening to this? What do your Hello?

Frank (21m 49s):
Oh, I lost you again almost Frank Oh, there we go.

Duncan (21m 56s):
Okay. Yeah. Okay. Frank why would you want to say, you know, 'cause like, it was like, what, what you want to tell people, listening to this? What, what schizophrenia so great, like, from your experience, what are you really like? Are you, you know, what

Frank (22m 12s):
Would

Duncan (22m 13s):
You, how would you want to add to tell someone to understand how you feel?

Frank (22m 19s):
Well, I can say I'm, you know, I think that pop culture has a funny way of, of using mental health, specifically schizophrenia and other things like that as kind of this way of, you know, explaining violent and horrible people in, in pop culture, you know, in the movies and things like that. And honestly, I have yet to meet a schizophrenia person who is violent, or who is trying to destroy things, I think most schizophrenia, or at least the ones that I've encountered in my life have all just been people who are good people who don't want to hurt anyone else who are really just experiencing things that are intense and confusing, and they just want answers.

Frank (23m 13s):
They want relief from their symptoms.

Duncan (23m 17s):
Are you on medication at the moment?

Frank (23m 20s):
I know. I, I don't need to take them anymore. I've been able to wean myself off of them. So

Duncan (23m 27s):
If you are on an anti psychotics before,

Frank (23m 30s):
Yeah. I've, I've probably been on most typical and atypical anti-psychotics at one point or another for the past 10 years, trying different things, seeing if things work, if they don't. And really none of them ever really improved my situation. It's only been my, the development of my spirituality. That's improved my situation and helped me.

Duncan (23m 57s):
But these, these drugs are quite powerful. I mean, what was your experience? Did you experience side effects?

Frank (24m 4s):
Yeah, I think most of the time the, the, the, the benefits did not outweigh the, the negative side effects from them. I took one drug that made me feel too big for my body. I felt like I was going to explode constantly. Like I was just going to explode out of my body. I don't know. And they all make me very tired when the game wait. Yeah. I mean, I know that in some cases, the medication is helpful for some people. And I think just in my specific personal experience, it's been the development of my spirituality that has really changed everything for me.

Duncan (24m 47s):
You know, you, you know, you talk about spirituality and I, and I feel that it's a passion. I think that's a passion for you. And, you know, we can talk about it. And it's also a great passion for me as well. You know, I, I mean, for me, it was when my mom passed away and I was looking for answers and I read through spirituality and it also gave me an understanding of schizophrenia as well. And I think has given you an understanding of schizophrenia as well as the spiritual aspect. And it's interesting when we both came to that same conclusion, that in a way of spirituality kind of explains a lot of the mental phenomenon that you experienced as the schizophrenia.

Duncan (25m 29s):
So definitely, I mean, you know, it's also, it's, you know, I, it was kind of like a, of a niche. It's an, it's a niche kind of almost a taboo topic in modern life. Isn't it?

Frank (25m 49s):
It is. And I think, I mean, as far as far as I understand it, I think we're kind of moving into M a, a phase and human evolution where I think it's going to be become much more prevalent. I think we're, we're all going to start to understand our spirituality and our place in the universe in the years to come. But yeah, I mean, I think that really schizophrenia is rooted in our spirituality and our connection to the rest of the universe. And I think the more that we can understand the universe that surrounds us, and the more that we can understand how we fit in to all of that, they can help us to understand symptoms like auditory and visual hallucinations and different things, synchronicity that we notice.

Frank (26m 41s):
I think all of that can be explained. Just by understanding the universe better.

Duncan (26m 46s):
Yeah. Do you want to talk about any of the symptoms that you've experienced? Is that something you want to talk about ?

Frank (26m 55s):
I guess I've come to understand my auditory hallucinations as really a telepathic communication between myself and other conscious entities out there. My spirit guides. And I think that, you know, I've had an array of experiences as far as those go from being harassed and put down and having these overwhelmingly medic negative experiences to having these communications tell me, you know, Oh, you, it doesn't say it's going to rain today, but you might want to bring an umbrella just in case, because it turns out it did rain, you know, so they've been positive.

Frank (27m 37s):
They had been negative. And as I have, you know, understood where these are coming from, I've understood the difference between them. And I've been able to take myself away from the negative experiences and allow myself to keep experiencing the positive ones.

Duncan (27m 55s):
Yeah. I mean, it kind of like, it can also be quite scary. Did you have some paranoid delusions as well with them?

Frank (28m 5s):
Yeah. I've had paranoid delusions that had been very intense. Yeah. And they've caused a great deal of damage and the past to myself to O to so many things, but I've got it.

Duncan (28m 21s):
Oh yeah. Carry on. Carry on, carry on.

Frank (28m 24s):
Oh, okay. Like I said, I I've come to understand where those things originated from. And I've been able to learn how to block that from my experience and to protect myself from that sort of thing, because the universe is full of positive and negative energy. And so I think, you know, learning that certain things come from certain places, you can protect yourself from those things and, and make your experience more positive. I know we're almost out of time.

Duncan (28m 57s):
Yeah. We're just about out of time. It was fantastic to speak to you, frank yeah.