0 (12s):
<inaudible> welcome to another episode of interview. I'm your host. And today I have the great pleasure of having Cody with me, Cody. This is in mid twenties and he lives in Florida in America. So welcome Cody, how you doing today?

1 (50s):
I'm doing okay.

0 (53s):
That's great, man. Are you, are you, I suppose you've got to wait quite a while before you get your vaccine.

1 (1m 3s):
Yes. I'm going to wait a while before I get my vaccine.

0 (1m 6s):
Yeah. But at least, at least we seem to be winning the battle. Now I think the worst is behind us.

1 (1m 17s):
I think so, too.

0 (1m 21s):
Okay. So let me ask you, if you could just give us a summary of how your mental health journey began. What were your first symptoms? How old were you? Did you require to go to the hospital? Did you see a consultant? You know, just talk about that. Give us a feel for how your story began. That'd be really excellent.

1 (1m 47s):
Okay. Well, it, it starts out like dark, like really, really dark. It all happened. I wouldn't say it all happened. I would say it mostly started when I was like in middle school. Cause like I was starting to feel depressed and I was starting to feel lonely. Like no one wanted to be my friend.

1 (2m 29s):
I felt like the friend of the darkness, the shadow, I couldn't fit in. I mean, despite so many achievements, my brain was telling me there's something wrong. I am broken. No one wants to be my friend. I belong in the friendship dumpster.

0 (2m 59s):
And then from there it

1 (3m 0s):
Just managed to get worse, going into high school. It was getting harder because then I decided to keep my depression from everyone. And then it started to work its way into paranoia and PTSD. And I kept on getting in trouble with most of my teachers because of it. I kept on scaring people. I even went to school one day and it's like, I baked my entire class to turn off their cell phones because I kept on getting this message that said, people are listening to, to you through your friends, cell phones, your classmates cell phones.

1 (3m 53s):
And I'm like, okay, we have to turn them off. I was that paranoid.

0 (4m 2s):
Okay. When did you see a doctor?

1 (4m 9s):
I didn't start to see a doctor until after I graduated from high school because that's where my problems progressed even further.

0 (4m 24s):
So tell me about,

1 (4m 30s):
So after I graduated I decided good college Turns out I couldn't do college Because my mental health was still in pending me to do Cause my PTSD managed to get worse. So that, that was bad.

0 (5m 6s):
Do you think the PTSD was, it was kind of caused by your mental health issues, creating trauma in your life?

1 (5m 16s):
No, I had trauma happened from my childhood. I just, I mean, I just bottled everything down and tried to pretend that everything was okay.

0 (5m 35s):
Hm.

1 (5m 38s):
So I had a lot of repressed memories as well and I wouldn't open it, opened that box and wouldn't talk to anybody. I couldn't trust anybody that I was around, not in including my own guidance counselor in high school or my teachers for that fact.

0 (6m 2s):
Okay.

1 (6m 6s):
And then after I dropped out of college, yeah, I dropped out of college because I decided to take care of my mental health first.

0 (6m 24s):
I was 20. Okay.

1 (6m 29s):
So at the age range of my mental health, we're looking at from six, 18 to 20.

0 (6m 37s):
Yep. Tell me what, what did you do if you dropped out of college, what did you do then? That the focus on your mental health?

1 (6m 59s):
I, I tried to look at it like it was a jigsaw puzzle and try to figure out how all the pieces fit, How I can manage to carry at least some of the burden or at least get it to stand horizontally, not vertically.

0 (7m 25s):
Okay. So how did that go there?

1 (7m 32s):
It was hard. It was very, very hard in the beginning. And eventually more things piled on one of my friends from high school who was supposed to graduate the same year. They committed suicide and I just completely lost it. I managed to gain half myself though to build myself up. Most of that percentage, I got it halfway built up so I could say, okay, I can move on from this.

0 (8m 16s):
Yeah, that sounds good.

1 (8m 21s):
And then like in the middle of me moving on something else, even heavier on top of that bill and I felt like that I was being pulled like a vacuum effect into outer space or through a black hole. I don't know how many of your listeners like to listen to Lincoln park?

0 (8m 54s):
I find that quite a popular band. Well, they were quite popular band about 10 years ago. The kind of, I don't know what they're doing now actually, but the popular band man, so people will probably heard of them.

1 (9m 8s):
Okay. Then they probably know what happened to the lead singer of Lincoln park.

0 (9m 15s):
Oh yes. Of course he committed suicide. I didn't hear

1 (9m 18s):
Yes. That, that's the big thing that I'm talking about. That that affected me heavily because I grew up listening to them. He became like a second father cause I grew up without a father. So when he committed suicide, I just completely lost everything. Lost my bearings, lost focus. I wanted to give up on the world and just chase him to the other side.

1 (9m 59s):
And so five days after that is where we really ran into trouble because I tried to do just that. I attempted suicide myself.

0 (10m 19s):
And so how did it, and I mean, did you, did you get taken the hospital? Yeah,

1 (10m 30s):
First I was unconscious for days and then I ended up going to the hospital after that, then I got formally diagnosed with PTSD and depression. And then from there we just worked our way into dissociative identity disorder and schizophrenia. So no, I have PTSD, depression, schizophrenia, and to associative identity disorder all in one box.

0 (11m 7s):
Okay. Fine. I mean depression. Yeah, that, that one is often with schizophrenia. I think PTSD. Yeah. That's a separate issue. And that's to do with your trauma from when you were young and did yeah. That's a complex disorder, isn't it? That's a complex disorder and schizophrenia is an upper complex disorder. Yeah. It must be quite difficult to deal with all of that, you know, especially because, you know, for me, I know my diagnosis, paranoid schizophrenia.

0 (11m 48s):
I also take antidepressants is easy kind of me for, to, to know what that's part of my then see. So I can imagine must be much more difficult for you with dealing with four different diagnosis to see where you fit in that because it's, it's quite rare. I would think. Yeah, it is. So when you were in hospital, did you, did I keep you in a psychiatric ward?

1 (12m 26s):
First? I was admitted to the regular hospital before they put me in the Psych. We head Dr. Ward, the crazy town as people love to call it. And so I cycled through there numerous times trying to finally find peace and serenity and try to piece myself back to somewhat normal knee normalcy because it was hard to find myself.

0 (13m 20s):
Yeah.

1 (13m 23s):
I mean, it can still be a struggle today, but today I've kind of got it managed despite the fact that most people don't know if it's me or not. That's one thing. Yes, it did. Okay.

0 (13m 48s):
So why understand by this order is that you can disassociate from reality for a period of time and you will have no recollection of that time, but you were active during that time, is that correct? Right. Which is to me is pretty scary. Really? I would think disturbing.

1 (14m 18s):
Yeah. So when I was actually in the regular hospital, I actually ended up going into cardiac arrest in going on to the other side. I briefly did see Chester there.

0 (14m 39s):
So you had a near death experience? I did. That's fascinating. Do you want to talk about that? Just talk about what you're comfortable with. Yeah.

1 (14m 56s):
I mean, when I was still laying in my own bed, I immediately came out of myself like an out of body experience. I had it here in my own house.

0 (15m 12s):
Okay. How did you feel then?

1 (15m 19s):
Like I messed up, screwed up and I felt really, really scared as, and I tried to fix it, but I couldn't, you know, I mean I tried going back into myself in it and I couldn't.

0 (15m 44s):
What else did you see?

1 (15m 48s):
What else did I see? I, I saw a long line of people. I saw a big gate and then I talked to the creator himself in. He told me everything I had to do every amends I had to make every mistake that I had to rectify.

0 (16m 16s):
How was the feeling of that communication? Was it, was it warm? Was it cold? Was it balanced? How did you, how did you, do you remember that?

1 (16m 34s):
I don't know if any of you guys are familiar with any of the Superman movies, whether old or the man of steel remake

0 (16m 44s):
I've seen them. Yeah.

1 (16m 49s):
It felt like being in, inside the fortress of solitude where like you mess with certain crystals and you see a Superman's father talking to you.

0 (17m 3s):
Okay. Okay. Do you looking back now from VAT experience, does that give you comfort or does it, does it make you afraid or do you just not think about it?

1 (17m 37s):
I haven't really thought about that. I mean, at first it was like, okay. I mean, I've been like, I, I am able to talk to people who cross over to our side from the other side and then someone go there myself and then come back again. But that felt really different.

0 (18m 17s):
Yeah. Yeah. I, I mean, in terms of spirits, it's kind of, you know, I think that has also got something to do with the hallucinations in schizophrenia. I do. You know what I mean by that?

1 (18m 44s):
I do. And I never really thought about it that way.

0 (18m 50s):
Hmm. I mean, you've gone through a hell of a lot. Cody you're only 24. You've gone really fru a hell of a lot. So how do you see your life moving forward? Is this how, I mean, how did you see your life and move forward as a future looking for you now?

1 (19m 20s):
Well, considering how I'm about to open my own business. Yeah. That's a big shocker there. I'm still trying to wrap my head around that one.

0 (19m 34s):
That's good, man.

1 (19m 40s):
But yeah, I mean, I felt bad for the way that I scared my family, the way I did when they found me unable to be awoken. I mean, at first they, they thought I was just plain sleeping and then around 11, they came in and was like, okay, time for you, wake up. And meanwhile, behind them in though, they can really see that version of me. I was like, hello, you can't see me, but you can't do that something wrong.

1 (20m 20s):
You have to get nine one one here. Now

0 (20m 25s):
You can see them.

1 (20m 26s):
I could see them. They couldn't see me. All the, all they saw was a fiscal version of me laying on the bed, unable to become conscious again.

0 (20m 41s):
Cody, have you done any further research into spirituality? Not really. No. No. I mean, it says because maybe your sensitive to that side of life, you know, I think you are sensitive to that side of life, to the spiritual realm.

0 (21m 25s):
Yeah. So what is your business?

1 (21m 32s):
My business is in payment processing or financially speaking. So picture this right. You go to Walmart or even Wendy's or taco bell or McDonald's or burger King, and you're waiting in a line and you see the card reader thing that has a swipe. And now nowadays the chip thing at the bottom where you entered the card with the chip or even more so nowadays since the pandemic hit contactless payment, where you can just take your phone, tap it onto the thing and do it that way.

0 (22m 30s):
No,

1 (22m 31s):
That's what my company works with.

0 (22m 36s):
Are you quite intelligent? Do you have like a high intelligence?

1 (22m 46s):
I think I do. I mean, I know I do when it comes to computers and things,

0 (22m 52s):
I, I, that was kind of what I was getting up because I would imagine that you're creating some sort of tech using technology and converting real life processes into computerized processes does take a degree of intelligence.

1 (23m 17s):
I never really thought about that, but I'd have to say, yeah, I guess it does.

0 (23m 23s):
Yeah. What about your D your relationships? How have your relationships with people improved?

1 (23m 43s):
I would have to go sell on that. I mean, I still have a little bit of issues here and there and the, and there are days where super paranoid me comes out. And then there's also days where like, sometimes I can not be here for like a month up to six months at a time.

0 (24m 15s):
Yeah.

1 (24m 18s):
And so my family doesn't really know who they're dealing with and they honestly couldn't really care.

0 (24m 27s):
You know, a lot of folk that don't really understand the sorts of phenomenon, you know? So it's difficult. What, what do you do, do you, do you want to talk to people and, and explain, you know, to have somebody understand what you went for and what you're going, for example, since you,

1 (25m 4s):
Yes, it is highly.

0 (25m 10s):
And do you, and there's a degree of frustration that it doesn't happen in everyday life,

1 (25m 17s):
Right? It is. Yeah.

0 (25m 23s):
Okay.

1 (25m 23s):
I mean, sometimes I even get compared to Norman Bates.

0 (25m 32s):
Do you think you might have a touch of autism?

1 (25m 38s):
I never really thought about that. I mean, I know I had that diagnosis when I was a kid and then they're like, Oh, when the depression comes in, you kind of out grow the autism part.

0 (25m 53s):
Okay. So, I mean, okay, you've got your business, which is quite dry, isn't it? But I imagine the technological side gives you some satisfaction. And also the fact that you could, you could be quite one off financially, if it's successful, what else do you like to do? Is it, are you looking for connections? Is that important? I think that's important as the wheel. We all want that connection. I think because also that's kind of, if you're sensitive to the spiritual side of life, in terms of spirit connections, the most important thing, because we realize that a spirit that we all connected, there's no, there's no barriers.

0 (26m 49s):
It's who we are, is what you see. So maybe the fact that you're sensitive to the spiritual side, maybe that's a reflection on, on who you are, if you know what I mean.

1 (27m 4s):
That is an interesting thought.

0 (27m 9s):
Okay.

1 (27m 10s):
But, but yeah, I, I liked playing video games and I like solving puzzles, reading books, and sometimes even writing them.

0 (27m 25s):
Okay.

1 (27m 25s):
But my video games are the most important piece. I mean, I, I play ones that that's called Batman Arkham, whether it's called Arkham asylum, Arkham city or origins or Arkham night, even

0 (27m 48s):
Quite amusing, isn't it?

1 (27m 50s):
Yeah. I mean, I love that video game. I mean sometimes where, where I'm having like a really bad emotional day where I just feel so angry. I just want to punch this Nadal. Somebody I'm like, Alrighty, I'm going to be in govern city, become the bat.

0 (28m 10s):
Yeah. What about movies, specifically movies, which you can relate to? Is that something that you enjoy?

1 (28m 23s):
Yes, it is. It really is.

0 (28m 37s):
Okay. Cody. Well, I mean, you know, we could, I could talk a lot more, but we've, you know, I think, I think that's fine for now. I was hoping we can wrap it up here. Why do ask the two more questions? The first question is, is there anything I haven't asked you that you'd like to talk about? Now's your chance? Well,

1 (29m 12s):
I, I do like investigating and I mean, my, my dream was always become like some sort of law enforcement or investigator like the police or something.

0 (29m 37s):
Yeah.

1 (29m 40s):
And so when comes to like watching a crime show where something, and they give you like puzzle pieces that you have to figure out, I'm actually putting myself into like the shoes of a detective and like working along with it in though, I know that on the show, Like the audience will figure out something first before the actors on the show themselves do on like, that's a little weird, like I'm one step further ahead than they are.

0 (30m 19s):
Hmm. You know, detective solving problems, those types of skills, they are quite relevant in many different areas of life and work, not just in the police department, even in your technology field, you probably enjoy it because there's the puzzles. And then there's a lot of that going on in different areas of work, I think. And even in life to solve your problems about ourselves, our own identity, where we fit in in the world, you know, what, what, where did, where did that people go?

0 (31m 2s):
You know, all these sort of puzzles that, that to be sold, you know? So there's a lot of, there's a lot of bad life.

1 (31m 13s):
Right. And most of my alters as they're called other personalities, they're also called alters. A lot of them are like within the military or police field or some sort of law enforcement field.

0 (31m 37s):
Okay. So I can find what kind of they, I think we better wrap it up here. What, my final question is this, what is your preferred drama of music?

1 (31m 54s):
My preferred

0 (31m 58s):
John wrote music.

1 (32m 1s):
Mostly rock. Okay.

0 (32m 4s):
Okay. Okay. Fine. You know, I just want to say thank you very much for telling your story. It was very interesting, you know,

1 (32m 15s):
Thank you for having me. This is

0 (32m 16s):
My pleasure, man. Seriously, my pleasure. I I've I've said this Abra guests that I do hope to have people on repeat shows eventually identify that will happen, but it's something that I would like to do. So, you know, you're more than welcome to come back at a later stage.

1 (32m 36s):
Okay. That'd be great.

0 (32m 41s):
I'm pretty sure that you'd like to actually, maybe, I don't know, talk to an altar too and have them introduce themselves and tell their, I dunno. I mean, strictly this is a schizophrenia show. I mean, one of them actually has a lot more schizophrenia than I do, but okay, fine. Well, we can talk about that later, but that was fine. But just want to say thank you again. Absolute pleasure. I didn't mean to take away from the whole schizophrenia thing with that is fine because at the end of the day, it's about you as a person and how your story with your life.

0 (33m 27s):
And one of your diagnosis of schizophrenia, it doesn't make schizophrenia is not your identity. It's just a condition that you have and you also have conditions, not as

2 (33m 51s):
<inaudible>.