1 (31s):
Hello, and welcome to another episode of Interview with a schizophrenia. I am your host Duncan Samarasinghe now and today I have a guest from United Kingdom. Shannon hello, Shannon. How are you doing it today?

2 (48s):
How are you?

1 (50s):
You know, not necessarily fine. The weather was nice. Well, that actually, I actually had to come down with a bit of a virus. I'm wondering if this occurred of ours is, but I'm not sure if I tell her I'm I'm not entirely sure what it is, but it might just be, you want to just be stressful, something in there anyway. Let's lets start the interview. So Charlotte, tell me how did your mental health journey begin?

2 (1m 17s):
Well, I think my first symptoms were probably when I was a kid, when it was about six, I was really paranoid and I had this thing where I thought there was this like old hag that would wait at the top of the stairs. When I was walking down the stairs, I could feel her watching me and I thought she was going to get me. But

1 (1m 46s):
You see that it, was it a dream or was it a hallucination? What was that

2 (1m 51s):
Never saw her? I was, I was scared to death of seeing her. I could just feel her behind me and I could feel her hiding behind corners in the house waiting for me. It was really creepy. I think my, my symptoms started when I was about 16, 17, and it started with voices, voices at night when I was trying to sleep, I couldn't, I couldn't sleep because of all the voices. And then, and then I started to think that I was broadcasting my thoughts out to everybody, you know?

2 (2m 33s):
And I thought my neighbor was a psychic vampire and it was sucking the sanity out of me.

1 (2m 43s):
So did you, did you got admitted to hospital or do you see a GP? What would happen then?

2 (2m 49s):
No, not until I was 18. I was 18. When I signed myself in to the hospital, I actually moved away from home at 17. Nobody really noticed that was I was depressed before that and I just sort of cut myself off from everybody and hung out in my room. So nobody really noticed I was really, I was really scared to tell anybody about my symptoms. So it was, it was when I was 18. I signed myself into the hospital and that's when I got diagnosed.

1 (3m 25s):
So this would have been about the, about the turn of the century. Wouldn't be at about year 2000 or, and then around then? Yeah, I actually became ill. I actually went and lost a little bit around that time as well. My first admission. Yeah, it was a, cause it was a lot different back then because I don't know if you've been to a mental health ward recently, but there are lots of different to how they were the same 20 years ago. Yeah, because that's like back then we had like a smoking room. Did you ever smoke?

2 (3m 59s):
The smoke

1 (4m 3s):
Is like where the smoking room when you could smoke and you know, it was normal, know

2 (4m 8s):
The hospital, they came around every hour and let your cigarette.

1 (4m 12s):
Yeah, because it was, it was for people for that. It would be the skits people with mental health smoke as a relief, you know, which is kind of true. But with these, these days is it's a legalism that you are not allowed to smoke in the hospital. So you go so well, what was your diagnosis? What did they diagnose you with?

2 (4m 37s):
Paranoid schizophrenia.

1 (4m 41s):
Okay.

2 (4m 41s):
And panic attacks.

1 (4m 46s):
Okay. And do you were diagnosed at 18? Yeah. Yeah. So did I pay your medication?

2 (4m 53s):
They did. I don't remember what it was at the time. Yeah. Yeah. It was an anti-psychotic. I don't remember which one. I actually had a brain hemorrhage at 20

1 (5m 9s):
And

2 (5m 10s):
My, my symptoms went away after my brain hemorrhage and I went off my meds and I was off my meds for like 18 years before the symptoms came back.

1 (5m 22s):
Rarely. Yeah.

2 (5m 25s):
Yeah. I had money in everything got married and had fun,

1 (5m 36s):
But brain hemorrhage. I mean, w so was it a mild hemorrhage or was it, did you, it says quite okay.

2 (5m 46s):
Yeah. Yeah. No, it was, it was a knock out of blood vessels in my brain. It's called an AVM

1 (5m 54s):
Arterial,

2 (5m 54s):
Venous malformation, and it just sort exploded one day. And I spent a week in the hospital after that.

1 (6m 3s):
Okay. Okay.

2 (6m 6s):
No, not on the psych ward obviously, but, but I have a lot of sleep paralysis after the brain hemorrhage. Yeah like a lot, like every time I fell asleep for a few weeks, but they didn't give me my meds in the hospital. So when I came home, I forgot to take them. And after about two weeks I was, I was good. I was fine.

1 (6m 34s):
So when did it all started up again, then you said a word?

2 (6m 38s):
Yeah, I was about 38 was about five years ago. Okay.

1 (6m 42s):
And so what started again?

2 (6m 47s):
Well, it had to complete a psychotic break.

1 (6m 50s):
Okay. Okay. And that's a psychotic break has essentially a break from reality it's when you, it's what you perceive as reality a non-reality get, get mixed up. So basically your schizophrenia, his symptoms returned.

2 (7m 10s):
Yes. Yes they did.

1 (7m 12s):
So did they put your medication like a again or

2 (7m 16s):
They put me on quite high, a pain first and Amman airy preppers on that.

1 (7m 21s):
Okay. Okay. And where are you getting any side effects

2 (7m 26s):
With the crux high? A pain? Yeah, it was bad. I put it on, I put on about two stone in two months and I just, I slept, I slept so much and I, I just found that hard to get up and do anything, which makes it hard with kids. So

1 (7m 48s):
Not all the children.

2 (7m 50s):
I've got an 18 year old. I've got a twelve-year-old and I've got the seven year old.

1 (7m 55s):
Okay. Okay. So, so of course, some questions answer. How did your friends react? Cause it's kind of different with you because you, you got better and then you, then you re relapsed in a way. It didn't you send it to your, how did your friends react when you, when you relapsed? It was, was that okay? Or?

2 (8m 19s):
Well I've, I was live in a different country now than I did when I first got sick. So So the, the friends I have now are good. Yeah. I've, I've been able to be pretty open with them.

1 (8m 35s):
Okay. But I think, I think it's the best way is to be open. I think, I think it only becomes difficult if you're in like a, an office environment where they can be, cause it can be quite toxic and they can do you know what I mean? They, they weren't at work and like understand. It's all about like, like, you know, like mental strength and all of this sort of thing you do, you know, it's not that I have a mental illness is not a weakness. It's just the condition. Right. But if you, I feel it can be some, some like work environments can be toxic and difficult to talk about mental health, like, and especially schizophrenia, because there's so much discriminating.

1 (9m 22s):
Have you ever face discrimination or, or stigma and like you are in your life?

2 (9m 27s):
I lost a lot of friends when I first, when I first got it and yeah, lost a lot of friends. Definitely.

1 (9m 40s):
Okay. So the fact that you're a stay at home, mom, is that, is that to do with mental health? Is that because you don't want to work because of your mental health condition? Is that, is that a factor?

2 (9m 55s):
Well, it's partly a factor I would, I would like to, I would like to get a job I would like to work, but now that my kids are a bit older and in school and stuff, I'm not sure what I would do. It's been, it's been so long. I've been without a job that I'm not sure what I would go back to. But

1 (10m 15s):
Yeah. I mean, there are, there are a lifetime jobs and mental health, like, like peer supports, were you when your peer support work and when you help, you know, I would say young people with mental health problems.

2 (10m 32s):
Yeah. That would be really cool. I think I'd really more than that.

1 (10m 35s):
Yeah. That, that sort of thing was quite good. See you at the time. And so I had at the moment, how is it, how are you coping at the moment? Because obviously I found you on the schizophrenia, the community on the internet. So how are your, how's it, how's your life effected at the moment

2 (10m 59s):
I've got, I have good days and bad days, you know, the meds helped a lot, but, but they don't, they don't help entirely. I still, I still have delusions and stuff. Sometimes I catch myself out. So I'm quite good at catching myself out. So it's the negative symptoms, I think mostly that affect me at this point.

1 (11m 25s):
Yeah. So the negative symptoms are like, like apathy, the depression withdrawal that are kind of yeah. That is that they make the, making it hard to live their day to day 'cause you might, you might not have, it may be difficult to stick to a daily routine because of the negative symptoms. Because I, I mean, I also get affected by as well. Yeah. I know it is quite difficult. So what, what, what are your sort of things do you have delusions about?

2 (12m 7s):
I just, I do find myself thinking I can read minds and I have to have to take a step back and be like, this is all in your head. You know, you need to communicate with people and not just assume things because,

1 (12m 23s):
So how do you to read minds? Did you hear voices as well? Okay.

2 (12m 30s):
Sometimes not lately. Not the past week or two, but, but yeah,

1 (12m 38s):
Because I'm like, okay, fine. I mean, you said, so if you're, if you're, if you can read someone's mind, you hear it as a force, whereas a voice in the head.

2 (12m 49s):
Sometimes, sometimes I just, I just assume I know what they're thinking.

1 (12m 54s):
Oh, okay. 'cause, that's kind of like, Mmm. There's a couple of things here that may be complicated, but one thing is a woman's intuition. The woman's intuition is a natural kind of accepted way of like women can understand what somebody's thinking. And also has schizophrenia, controversially. There is a bit of a psychic element in it, which is not, it's not, you know, its kind of, it's not mainstream. It's not taught by in medical school. But you know, there is a lot of talk about it that it could be a psychotic element.

1 (13m 35s):
So there are all, there are a couple of things in there, but yeah, I know that the lesions can be, can be troublesome because it can, it can conflict with your reality.

2 (13m 49s):
Yeah. And do you find yourself acting on it and it's not necessarily based in what's really going on. I have my, my, my voice has a lot of the time are people. I know they sound sounds like people. I know. So I found that confusing.

1 (14m 8s):
So what you believe the voices are?

2 (14m 16s):
I honestly don't know. Just something wrong with my head.

1 (14m 26s):
Yeah. Is it for the, I don't know. I mean, I always have voices and it can be quite painful and stressful and there would be telling that doctor never tells her, I've got to talk to sales as well as a chemical imbalance type of medication and it will go away basically. But for us who is, we experience it every day, you know, is difficult, you know?

2 (14m 55s):
Yeah. It's so hard sometimes to find where you draw the line too. Is it, is it just my inner inner thoughts or is this starting to become a problem? You know what I mean? Like

1 (15m 9s):
I don't know yet. Yeah. I mean like, cause I also, my voice sounds like people are not in it. So I got angry with those people in real life. Do you know what I mean?

2 (15m 23s):
I know exactly what you mean

1 (15m 24s):
By that, but it's difficult. It's difficult to confront them because I, because how can you do that? You know, in general, I mean it's, it's kind of its kind of difficult, but then it could just be, it could be nothing to do with them whatsoever. So yeah. So what sort of things do you do in your life to help you cope with your mental health symptoms?

2 (15m 59s):
Oh, I just try to take it really easy. I spend, I, I spend a lot of time distracting myself, try to stick to a basic schedule, which I have to because of the kids obviously, but not, not as much now that we're in lockdown. Okay.

1 (16m 22s):
Do you, do you do and so you listen to music? Yes. Yeah. Yes. Quite a bit. And do you practice any arts or anything?

2 (16m 34s):
You know what I used to and I would like to again, but I'm out of supplies at the moment. So I think that's something I'm gonna do in the coming weeks. I've brought out of paper in my sketchbook of run out of paints.

1 (16m 52s):
Yeah. Because definitely like, like I think, I think, eh, you know, when you have a schizophrenia diagnosis, part of it is to, is to express to your loved ones, what your feeling and what a good way is to draw and to paint and to show your emotions on the, on the paper. And I think that's it. And that's a nice way to say, okay, this is great. What would you, is there anything you would like to say to anybody listening? You know, is that something which I haven't asked you about, which you would like to say?

1 (17m 38s):
Okay.

2 (17m 39s):
I think just that it's, it's hard, but it's not, not like, I guess a lot of people that are like, Oh my God, this was the most horrible thing that could ever happen. And it's not it's my life, you know? Yeah. We're just, we're just regular people.

1 (18m 7s):
It was a normal path, you know, you know, 'cause you got schizophrenia or if you read it in the news, it's usually by a serial killer or something like this with parents, which is a very disturbing for 99% of people diagnosed with schizophrenia because we're struggling with strange symptoms. We would like to be accepted by it by people not to be stigmatized. You know? I agree with you. Okay. That's great. Let's take, let's wrap it up here. Thank you very much for speaking with me, I will add some music to be like, hopefully you would like to just shine.

1 (18m 56s):
So at the Shannon the lights cold waves of thought.

0 (19m 3s):
I don't know

1 (19m 6s):
<inaudible> to speak to you.

0 (19m 23s):
The knock on home. Who's gone.

0 (19m 39s):
<inaudible> on the phone. Like there is nothing.

0 (20m 22s):
We can't pretend. Keep acting silly. The task <inaudible> <inaudible>.