0 (31s):
Hello, welcome to another episode of interview with the schizophrenia. I'm your host. <inaudible> tell you. I had the great pleasure of having Trevor with me. Trevor is 37 and he's from Ohio in America and he has a diagnosis of schizophrenia. So welcome to the show, Trevor, how are you doing today?

1 (52s):
Very good. How are you doing?

0 (54s):
Yeah, I'm doing pretty good as well, man. It's the weekend and the weekend is always nice. So I'm just kicking back chilling. I was watching the Disney channel last night, some of the new series about captain America. So yeah, just, just chilling out, man.

1 (1m 11s):
Nice.

0 (1m 13s):
So Trevor, what I want to ask you, if you'd give us a brief history of how your schizophrenia started in a way, if you go back to the beginning and talk about what happened, w what were your first symptoms and how it all began that, you know, at this talk us Frieda, you're not be really fantastic.

1 (1m 36s):
All right. Let's see here. When I was about 16, I suffered a depression. And before that, I would use to a ghost hunt, and I was interested in listening to like amplified silence and stuff for like ghosts. And, you know, it, it, when I was 16, it elevated into the depression.

1 (2m 19s):
I used to think that my dreams were connected to a reality, and that the events that occurred in my dreams were, you know, real events that, and real opinions and stuff like that, of the people in the dreams. And then what, round 28, I was diagnosed with schizophrenia between 16 and 28.

1 (3m 3s):
I used to have hallucinations of, of my neighbors talking to me outside my window. And, you know, it sort of escalated from there. I believed in things I believed in tell telepathy and, you know, communications that way and things escalated. And I ended up in the hospital a few times.

0 (3m 40s):
Okay. Okay, man. Yeah. So, no you're talking about when you're 16 and your guys taunting, did you mention that because you might feel that it's connected to your diagnosis?

1 (3m 59s):
It was just, you know, mental health troubles started around 16, at least the more severe symptoms. It was, it was connected to schizophrenia, but it wasn't at the same time, it was like a, you know, just a depression. And from that depression, I feel like I developed a lot of views of the world that ended up affecting me later on.

0 (4m 37s):
Okay. Okay. Fine. Because I'm the about depression. I feel because I feel looking at my own history that I was depressed in my late teen years. And you can actually get some, you can actually get diagnosed school, psychotic depression, where you're, the depression is so severe. It brings on psychosis. I mean, do you think that might have happened to you?

1 (5m 6s):
No, because when I was 16, it was just, it was just the depression. It wasn't schizophrenia at that point, but that was a big gear. And my mental health, you know, struggles was, was when I was 16, 17 years old. It wasn't until later on that I was, you know, thinking that I was hearing telepathy and, and voices and stuff like that.

0 (5m 47s):
Do you take, add psychotics?

1 (5m 51s):
Yeah, I think I take, I used to take Risperdol. I'm not sure they have me on right now. It's not very strong. It's yeah. I think it's an anti-psychotic. They have

0 (6m 12s):
Ahead

1 (6m 15s):
Probably about four or five years ago.

0 (6m 18s):
Okay.

1 (6m 21s):
I've been kind of resistant to them because, because I don't believe that anti-psychotics are the cure for schizophrenia. I think it comes from physical physical means that I've discussed this on the forum where I believe the balance system is the center for hearing voices. Like when you turn on a fan or a space heater and you start to hear voices.

1 (7m 3s):
Yeah. Like a fan or a space heater is going to be the same instrument as your balanced system. And I think that when you turn those on you activate your balance system to hear voices and communicate that way.

0 (7m 26s):
Okay, fine. Trevor, do you have voices at the moment?

1 (7m 37s):
They've been really light lately, nothing serious. About a year ago. It ended where it was very serious for probably about six years, but then my father passed away and that didn't cause the voices to stop, but I moved like briefly after he passed away. And I think moving around helped, helped a little bit moving to a new location and having new surroundings.

1 (8m 24s):
It didn't stop the voices. But when I moved back home from where I moved out to, I really haven't heard them like since, since then.

0 (8m 39s):
Okay. Okay. Fine. So your, are you claiming disability at the moment?

1 (8m 50s):
I filed for it, but I got denied about eight months ago. So we, we recent the, the claims back in to try to, you know, argue with them and we haven't heard back yet.

0 (9m 13s):
Okay. Okay. Fine. I mean, do you feel this illness has essentially, you know, taken away your quality of life? Has it, has it mean that you can't work or that you can't socialize in a normal way? I mean, because of the schizophrenia,

1 (9m 36s):
I would say that was true for the past six years, but this, this past year I've been in pretty good health, actually. I've been not hearing too many voices, not having the, you know, month long story episode, kind of, you know, sorry, not having like the, you know, episodes where they last, they last and last and I get all confused and, But for the past year, Oh, go ahead.

0 (10m 20s):
None of the carry on, carry on.

1 (10m 22s):
Yeah. For the past year it's been, I've been doing better. I would say I still hold some of the beliefs that I had when I was strongly hearing voices, but, you know, they just haven't really been there. They, they spark up after, after I wake up from vivid dreams, I'll still hear voices when I wake up, but they, you know, they haven't really been as strong in influencing my behavior.

0 (10m 59s):
Yeah. Okay. Fine. What do you feel is the, is the biggest barriers for you at the moment when you know you, cause your voices are a bit lighter, you're feeling a bit better the last six months while your barriers at the moment, which prevent you from, from living a normal life,

1 (11m 32s):
I guess just fear right now. I'm afraid that, you know, there's always something new, you know, around the corner is, is kind of the thing, even though the past six months have been, or the past year has been, you know, better that doesn't guarantee that the next year will be, you know what I'm saying? Yeah. It it's been like this before, where I've felt, you know, stable. And then I ended up tripping down a rabbit hole at some point, and then I ended up in psychosis again.

0 (12m 19s):
Okay. Fine. Have you ever experienced, I mean, okay. Let me ask you some questions. Have you ever experienced any discrimination you'd like to talk about

1 (12m 38s):
On the internet? Yeah, but not in person. I don't get like shunned when I go out into public or anything. I, but on the internet when I discuss things, sometimes I'll discuss something like, you know, my thoughts on the ballot system or the gyroscope and people tell me I need help and that I need to seek mental health. Then I always take, you know, sort of offended by that because I already seek mental health and you know, they just, they come off as kind of pompous telling me that I need to go into the hospital just because I wrote up, you know, something on a forum or something like that.

0 (13m 35s):
Yeah. I see your point. I mean, I know Trevor, we go on the same forum and he's also one of my Facebook friends. You often talk about the tailbone wagging as well, don't you? I, I don't really understand that.

1 (13m 52s):
Yeah. I, well, when I first, when I was 28, I came up with like a list of things to work on, associated with schizophrenia and, and gravity and to try to connect the two. And I found the tailbone or, you know, I, I thought maybe my tailbone is involved somehow. And that was back in 2012. And I didn't look at it again until 2017 or 2018, actually.

1 (14m 33s):
So for six years I just kind of ignored it. I th I think a lot of people do that. There's been one guy on the internet who, who said that he was a baseball player and that instead of leading with his hips, which they tell him to do in batting, he leads with his tailbone and he can hit the ball a lot farther. And he made the all-star team ever since he started doing that.

1 (15m 14s):
And that was about the only person that I've run into that has like, you know, at least, you know, they use their tailbone in some manner,

0 (15m 28s):
You know, Trevor, I think, you know, when I see your posts on like the triers scrape the Talbert, I think it needs to be translated. I think you have the speed. You have the, your own understanding of that, which is probably quite clear. But for other folks that don't really understand that they probably have to be translated into, into a way that other folks can understand. I think that's probably what <inaudible>.

1 (15m 59s):
Yeah. Like I think it's, it's just both those things are, are new pieces of information when you, when you Google search tailbone, our human tailbone wagging the, the Google answers are that that are read back are my answers on forum posts because there's like zero information out there about the tailbone. Yeah. It was just not, not very much information for people to reference.

0 (16m 40s):
Okay. Why don't you tell me about your art, because I know you also produce a regional art pieces.

1 (16m 48s):
Oh, that's something that started when I was having pretty severe episodes. The very first one I made was, was to try to find a circuitry for my gyroscope invention, because I wanted the gyroscope to measure, you know, how, when you laugh really hard, like a fan will like swoosh sort of that my thought was that you could take a instrument to measure the power to going into the fan.

1 (17m 42s):
And that could measure not just the power going into the fan, which changes when it swooshes, but, you know, it would also measure emotion in the atmosphere. So that's, that's the sort of stuff that, that, you know, I don't know the answer to. And I ended up, you know, my mind ends up wandering and I ended up making up new information that, that throws me off and I ended up believing it telepathy again and voices and the whole thing.

1 (18m 22s):
But yeah, my art was to just paint pictures for this gyroscope circuitry, where I had five emotions, happiness, love, sadness, fear and anger. And I painted like little, little, just blurry scratches on the paper above the, the five, the five emotions.

1 (19m 2s):
And they turned out like, like it was some sort of like ancient. Yeah. Like it was some sort of pictures that someone had drawn before. And they were like coming out of my hand, as I painted. And it looked like perfect. The five emotions, I had five little paintings of, of each emotion and they matched up, like there was a face in each of the little paintings that matched up with the emotion that, that it was supposed to.

1 (19m 43s):
And I was like, how the hell did that happen? And so I started like painting, like crazy. And I just, I just got into it. And I started, I ended up painting like 800 pictures.

0 (19m 55s):
Cool. Do you have a website of your art?

1 (19m 60s):
People can look up Trevor seven art, which is a Facebook page. And that has a lot of my ideas about tailbone and the gyroscope and, you know, a bunch of paintings to look at.

0 (20m 18s):
Okay, cool. I'll put the link in the description of this episode. Okay. Trevor, I just want to ask you two more questions. Is there anything I haven't asked you that you'd like to talk about if you, you like to talk about anything, what would it be?

1 (20m 38s):
I don't know. I always wanted to ask for forgiveness. If anyone is watching this or listening to it, that that I've founded. There was a long period of time in my life from 28 to 36, where I was very confused about telepathy. And I would have dreams about my friends from high school and from beyond high school. And I would wake up and I would hear them through the space heater as voices, and I would get confused about telepathy and I would, you know, make rude remarks to them in reality.

1 (21m 22s):
And, you know, so anyone who's watching that, that, that sounds familiar with, I just want to apologize to them that, you know, it was, it came from places that weren't factual to save the lease.

0 (21m 46s):
Okay. Fine. Yeah. I mean, it can be confused or confusing condition and sometimes we want to lash out. So I, I completely understand where you're coming from, you know, Trevor. Okay. And the final question, can you tell, let me know a particular type of music that you prefer, and I will include it on this episode,

1 (22m 15s):
Whatever he got laying around, you know, I can't, maybe

0 (22m 20s):
I like electronic, electronic or

1 (22m 23s):
Yeah. Electronics. Good.

0 (22m 25s):
Cool, cool. Okay. Trouble. I just want to say thank you very much for speaking with me. You know, I always, I like your pace on Facebook. You post some amusing sort of like, like poems or limericks. Like they always kind of make me chuckle. So thank you. Thank you for that. And your, you know, you're always on the forum and I try, always try to read your pies. So I just, I'm glad that you agreed to join me today. I mean, as well, pleasure. Yeah. Okay. And that is the end of this episode.