1 (31s):
Hello, welcome to another episode of Interview with a schizophrenic. I'm your host. Duncan I'm a singer. And today I had the great pleasure of having Paul with me. He lives in Alberta, in Canada. Paul welcome to the show. How are you doing this evening?

2 (47s):
I'm doing well. Duncan thank you for having me.

1 (51s):
That's my pleasure in that. So I, I, I just wanted to ask him what's the COVID situation. Like if you,

2 (57s):
It's not that it's, it's a rising a little bit, but people are still doing what they're doing. I'm still working, unfortunately. So yeah. It's not that it's not that bad.

1 (1m 8s):
Okay. So what you do is I'll ask you how your mental health journey began. So if you like to talk about that, we might be going back a few years. How did you guys, the hospital, did you, what would your symptoms, how did you get the diagnosis? If you like to talk about that? That would be fantastic. Okay.

2 (1m 28s):
Yeah. Things started for me just one day or I heard a voice that spoke to me and I quit my job. And I mean, this is a slowly progressive up to this in a ways. And I quit my job and fasted when I go fast pretty much. So I felt that's what I was to do and stopped eating completely fast. It for like 40 something days and only start to eat because I was afraid. And let me tell you those in those days were a hellish.

1 (2m 8s):
So w w when was this white for you? But yeah, it was about 18, 18, Okay

2 (2m 15s):
18. So I, you know, finished high school and then I was working for a bid and then that's when it started, you know, and yeah, when I started going that direction and, you know, so, so, yeah, so I went in to this fast and after I, I, I, I broke it because I was afraid I was going to die and then was going for a bit during this time though, it was a lot, like I had been seeing demons in my family as demons in which he does, and even before the fast, but it just intensified then.

2 (2m 58s):
And so after I broke it, I did it again. And it was after that. And my mom had called the emergency services and then they took me to the hospital and a that's when they told me to speak to the doctors and stuff, they diagnosed me. They noticed me with paranoid schizophrenia, with delusions of grandeur. So I've thought it was a prophet or something like that.

1 (3m 21s):
So you got to talk to me is when you were pretty young, then when you're 18, 19 Yeah okay. So, I mean, you are fasting because you are paranoid, you had to, you're going for a delusion. So you said you felt that before you were a prophet, so, you know, you are, that was that's what you told the doctors, you know, that it was, that, that was what, what was going on, right?

2 (3m 42s):
Yeah. That was going on. I, I, I was, I thought that his voice was a God, you know, and ah, for a while, and I've been feeling like, Oh, that's what I was supposed to be fast in or whatever it is. So what a voice spoke to me, he said, I'll give you a one week. And I interpreted that as a, that's what it meant. Cause that's, what's being going into my head and in, yeah. So it's just, I just went from there and it's just been a, it was a pretty dark experience. Yeah. It's a good start having hallucinations, a visual hallucinations, a auditory.

2 (4m 22s):
And yeah. So when the doctors recognized at a pretty quick and, and having spoken to them and telling them what I was thinking, cause a voice told me that that was a prophet. And, and so I just, I was honest with him. And so, yeah.

1 (4m 36s):
And then, you know, I mean, when I look back at my own history, you know, I've done some pretty strange things as well, because I believed that I was suppose to do them is that I've had religious delusions as well, where I think I've been hearing the hearing, God, the devil, that sort of thing. It's, it's really scary and kind of, you're just trying to have to just get for it. And it was, but yeah, I mean, well, yeah, go on.

2 (5m 10s):
I was, yeah, it was terrifying because everyone I saw were like demons or, or, or witches. And they were reading, my mind is like this big conspiracy against me, you know? And so it was like, I was like the only person that was not a part of this collective, you know what I mean? So it was pretty an isolating situation. Right. And so when I'm talking to the doctors, I was afraid of them because they were reading my mind as well. You know, so I was, I would speak sometimes in, and sometimes the boys would tell them to not speak. So I'll just, I would stop talking and it was just odd, weird situation.

2 (5m 53s):
So they could see that, that delusion, that, that we, I was acting that there was definitely a, not only that was, it was skin and bones by the time when they brought me in. Yeah.

1 (6m 4s):
Yeah. I think that's probably, I think the fact that you were not eating yeah. That would have ran a big alarm bells, you know, it at the hospital, there would be like, well, you know, this is, it's not just mental. This is like a life-threatening here. So we we've got to do something pretty quick, you know? And so I think that probably gave you a, gave the doctor is a sense of urgency, I would say so. And so what happened after I had him, did you say in the hospital and what was that like? Oh, it was a hose on it

2 (6m 36s):
Hospital for maybe some months, the first time, you know, they've put me on these meds and so forth. And once they did all this, I gave it to get my, my number's up. And then when I wouldn't eat for a good while, while I'm still in there, I was just, they've started to feeding with a tube feeding tube there and yeah. So they did all that. And then after a while, I'm thinking I'm, I can't do this fastened thing because I'm a fan and fed this to be this tube. So what I did was I started eating and that in there with a purpose of just giving out so I could start doing it again.

2 (7m 16s):
And that's kind of what happens. So I was out for a couple of months, again, eating and just playing the part, trying to pretend everything is good and I'm sitting in and out and then eventually I'll stop. And this whole thing starts over again. And it was like a cycle for some years actually. And yeah. So,

1 (7m 37s):
Okay. Would you, would you say this, it was, this was one persistent, a paranoid delusion that you were having, you know what I mean? Because it seems to me that some, some people are schizophrenia have multiple delusions and some have one prominent powerful Germolene

2 (7m 56s):
Yeah, yeah. That's it. That's what it was. They, they, they said it was religiosity or something. He is what they called him. And that's why they, it was explained it to me that there was a fixed delusions. And so they ask why they did when the meds weren't working on different meds. And then they decided to try ECT electroconvulsive therapy. So I did that like three times or something like that. Yeah. So enough to know that it was nice. It still didn't work. Oh, I was still in the same pass. So we eventually wanted to commit me to a longterm care facility where they are going to give me a gastric, a little tube in my stomach they're so they could feed me cause it, the tube and my nose done to my nasal gastric tube.

2 (8m 41s):
Wasn't it wasn't a longterm solution. But the way in my head, my health going in its up and down thing for all these years, I figured, well, they are gonna have to put a hole in my stomach and feed me with this, a tube permanent, a two of my stomach. So at a long-term care facility. And, but my mom, thankfully, it was not a to fall into the idea. So yeah. So she figured if he goes there, she didn't drive. So shouldn't be able to come and visit me as often as she does know what the hell are they gonna treat me? They're so it's a bigger, you know what, at least she'll have me home for sometime. And you know, if I go to a hospital, they could visit me. And so that, you know, was, yeah, that's kind of how it worked out.

2 (9m 23s):
'cause it was a, I could imagine a frustrating thing for the doctors because they do all these things and everything's going to Okay and then I leave and then I see someone's later I come back in the same condition as I was at first time and they're trying different things and nothing's working what they do. Right.

1 (9m 41s):
So you said, did you end up in that facility then? Or no.

2 (9m 45s):
No, I didn't. I didn't. But there was a point where it was a point where I don't know, I I'd just, I heard of a voice. It spoke to, you know, this is all his voice in the devil in God and ends up another, a voice spoke to me in, I just said, well, what am I doing? You know, it was like, Oh, this is a God. But you know, and then from that point I realize, you know, and I got to, I got to get a, I, I can't do this anymore. So yeah, from that point on his, when I stopped the caring on the psych, I realize this is, this is not God, this is, this is just being taken for a ride here.

2 (10m 29s):
So when I, once I was able to, I don't know why for some reason, I cannot tell you, How why in the world, I heard his voice so many times and asked me to, to God. And this time I know I said, okay, it's not for me. You know? And so once I was able to recognize this is a lie, it became easier to not continue to cycle. You know what I mean? So I always like this. This is a illusion that the cash is over your mind. And then once you see through the illusion and you know what, the power that he has is no longer there,

1 (11m 3s):
Well, you will be suicidal. Or did you just, just didn't want to want to eat? Or was it, was it suicidal as well or

2 (11m 10s):
No? No, actually I should. You know what I shouldn't say, I just snapped out of it like that. That's not how it went. I wasn't suicidal. The fast thing was to get me to a different state, I guess, so I can go and do what God wanted me to do it, but I had to go through this process. Now I became suicidal afterward. When I realized that this wasn't a God and I thought I'm trapped because I was thinking that God is going to set me free from these voices and all this stuff. So now when I realized that that's not, God, I know I'm thinking all of these voices and the, this hatred that I feel the world has for me in this constant torment in my mind. But I, the only hope I had, the only hope I really had to continue was it that I, that I'd be delivered from it, but now that's not going to happen and know the terrible burden from me.

2 (11m 60s):
So there was no more reason for me to live. And at one point, my heart started calling for like, it was like a hot burning sensation in there that I want it to go out and take a knife and reach it. You know what I mean? So I approached that point of suicide because that's the whole way I could escape this torment. And this misery, it is heavy misery. I had walked the streets of night at night, crying, crying, because I felt so hopeless. And to go into this bottomless pit of despair, this is where it was men.

1 (12m 34s):
You know, I think it's quite a significant percentage of a schizophrenia. Patients do attempt suicide in some manner. I think it's like I was, I, I was watching on YouTube. I was watching an interview of a schizophrenia page or from the 1960s. Yeah. And, and then I read it in the comments or seemingly this, you know, it's nice young man. And seeing this man, he committed suicide a few years when it just happens quite a lot, that there was this, the amount of despair and hopelessness. And you know, you just, you just look for something outside of life to, to help you

2 (13m 16s):
A strong on it. And I was there. I put, held that knife to my chest and I was ready. But is it a pretty close? What is from that moment that I, I don't know. Something just said, that was a thought. I said, what are you doing, man? Like, why are you doing this? Or it says your a coward. I'm like why? And then I realized, you know, 'cause, you're only here because you are afraid. You're afraid that Pete you're you're, everybody's rejecting you and you're going to, and you, and you don't want to live with this. This con always anxious. This anxiety came over me when I was like around people. So I couldn't, I would sweat. I'd love being alone. 'cause I would feel better. And it was a, is a, it's a it's it was more peaceful being alone with the tormentors of my mind than it was being around people.

2 (14m 1s):
It was worse, you know? So it was a story messed up. States

1 (14m 8s):
Would you say it was worse because like, people didn't know that the paps, you want to talk about it and they weren't.

2 (14m 16s):
No. No, because remember I'm seeing it as people, as witches in his demons when you really want to kill me. And so now they're reading my minds all in my mind was constantly cursing and it was like Tourette syndrome, except in my mind, I couldn't stop it. All right. I would repeat this same things with Walgreen of things all the time people were. And all of these are people I'm talking to my family, my friends, whatever. And I'm saying these awful things. And then, and they read it and they'll sometimes would say a comment on what are the things that's come to my head. So I would, I was always trying to stop it because I hated it and the, but I stop it. And so I would get all anxious and afraid and, and just so I would just be sweating because I was so nervous trying to stop this awful thoughts.

2 (15m 0s):
So when I was alone, now, it wasn't as bad because you know what I mean? That I was in so anxious, you know, that the anxious he has left, the thoughts are still there constantly. I honestly, from, from the first time that I started it, I never had a moment of quiet in my mind until I went to sleep. When I woke up, it was right there to greet me every day. Every moment, always my mind was going, I've talking to somebody that couldn't even pay attention to what I was saying, because I'm telling this voice is shut up, shut up, shut up. Yeah. You know, constant. Yeah. So,

1 (15m 36s):
So what, what, so your first, you know, now what age, where you, when, when this was kind of going on. Okay.

2 (15m 44s):
A man that was from the, probably even before I started at a fast, that was a little bit before that actually the voice speaking, repetitive, stuff like that. So from that time till about maybe man, that was probably like 28, 29, or maybe, maybe 30 or something like that. When I started, when I talk about then still, when things start to get better for me mental, why is it that voice there? But yeah, it was just from the start to the hole that many years constantly.

2 (16m 28s):
Okay.

1 (16m 28s):
So what, what was, I want to hear about how you got to a better place. So you're about 30. What, what, what happened? What, what would, what helped you and you tell us about that process?

2 (16m 43s):
Well, like I said, the, the, the first thing was recognized and this was it. It was a lie this whole fast in there was no, God talks to me and telling me to do this stuff. And when I, when I go into that point of despair and recognizing that I am only interested in killing myself, because one, I'm a really afraid of everybody. I am afraid of, of just the, the, the, the constant rejection I felt. So from that point, I realized, you know what I actually said to myself, well, yeah, I'm a coward. I thought, Oh, I'm not going to do this. You know what? I'm gonna live. I'm gonna live simply because people don't want me to live as a, you know what?

2 (17m 28s):
They don't want to kill me, let him, let them kill me. I'm not gonna do their jobs for this. So this is still a D all this delusion docking, but that pulled me out from that brink. And I just got started with your stubbornness, really, just to be stubborn. That's the only reason why I wanted to live. And then from then I started to really say, you know what? It says that that's more of my attitude. And then it became, well, I'm not gonna live in my room anymore after it. So that's where my old, my favorite place was. I had never used to greet my family, that he would come home and they come to see me because it would be high in a way in my room. So what I did, and now I started the challenge, all that I use to be so anxious, 'cause I, I hate being around people. So, no, I really, like I said, you know what, I'm going to go, and I'm going to talk to my mom.

2 (18m 11s):
And I'm just, instead of holding back, I'm trying to protect my S my thoughts are being corrupted. I'm not a dozen, I'm not, that's not me. So why am I focusing on something that's not me? So just ignore that and just go and just say, hi, and B try to be normal, try to just relax. And that's gonna, how things start to just 10 minutes men. And he felt like after like 10 minutes a day, or how did that start? And it was such a, a, a after I left that, that, that my presence of somebody else that was such a relief. So it goes a little difficult to stand there and not be disturbed, you know, with the anxiety and fear as well for it.

2 (18m 52s):
So I just practice like that with my family. And the more I did it, the more comfortable it became over time. And, you know, till I started to go outside for walks, and then I started seeing people and it started saying hi to them, and just, just challenging the things that were pushing against me and that push back a little bit until I'm like, yeah, I kind of a, you know, getting more and more regained, more and more of my self. Yeah. So from their Yeah, I went to, I did that for months and over a long, it was when I went in, I got a job. One of the, it it's a hard time at first.

2 (19m 32s):
And it was the same thing, just in a different environment. So this is, so it was a whole, I still got to get an egg, all the things that I did at home, I had to take that and bring it on a work scene now. And this is a bigger setting and it was a heavy thing, but I got through it. Okay.

1 (19m 50s):
Okay. Okay. So when did you find that you are alienated by your friends and family during your, during your twenties too? When it was chronic, but I think I've got the impression that you wanted a solid shade.

2 (20m 7s):
I did. I hate it. I didn't want to be around anybody, but my thankful it, my, my mom, my family were a grid man in my family. They were supportive. My mom, especially, she fought from me and she, she took, you know, the men, she enacted the mental care and here where they can, somebody is not a danger to themselves or others, then they can take away, have rights or what a person, you know, so pretty much she made decisions for me to go to the hospital because I did it when I was here. The first time I signed myself out. But now when she took over guardianship, I couldn't do that. You know, everything, you have to go through her. And so she really fought for me, you know, whatever it, whatever issues was, she took it on.

2 (20m 53s):
And my family, my sister's. And so where are they all came together, supported me, friends, a lot, a lot of friends on the way, but a lot of it is I rejected everyone pretty much. So that's kind of, that was why I was alone from the fringe a thing on a ways. So I, I don't know how people would have, would have acted I'm in that respect.

1 (21m 15s):
So, so just kind of moving to the present day. Do you still have symptoms? What are you going through now? How is your life? I mean, what, what are the things that for you, if you like in 2020?

2 (21m 29s):
So it was pretty good. And man, I'm pretty much like where it was before all of the foolishness started. I a R further, I guess, for all of the head, but I don't have any, any of that S symptoms anymore. I got into the, I ended up getting, getting to the trades, got my red seal electrical. So I've worked full time of my place here, where I live with my girlfriend. Okay. So we're going to get married soon. So pretty much had recovered.

1 (22m 6s):
That's awesome. It's an ultimate recovery story, man. That's so you know what, I'm so happy for you, you man, you also do a YouTube channel of what you produce the blogs. When you talk about that,

2 (22m 20s):
I, you know what, for a long time, my found has been telling me to my mom is special. You know what? You should write a book are you should listen to me because just looking from where it was to where I am or a God to when she was telling me about that, it was night and day. And, you know, she, she gave me a, a journal that she capped and it was just reading this stuff is just how broken. And she was watching me going through that, wandering if I'm ever gonna recover and talk with the doctor and said, is it pause or is it possible for Paul to returned to where he was? And she was like, no, like the doctor said 99% of, of all, sorry, 1% of people are diagnosed with schizophrenia, recover to the point that they don't need medications.

2 (23m 6s):
And so as your sun is not one of them and just when it was going on, what it looked like. I can't believe him for saying that, but, and me defying all that out and gotten to where I was a, it was incredible it to her, you know? So she said that, and I had kind of said, not people want to hear that stuff, man, because it was, you know, it's a lot different than what we're told and people, sometimes we just listen to what we're told and it might have experts or so forth. And so we kind of go with that. So I'm like, ahh, but I don't know. After, after some years of kind of rejecting that, I started thinking, you know, I'm like, I've been given this opportunity to take this path and recover it to where they see it was impossible or is it right for me to keep that to myself?

2 (23m 54s):
You know what I mean? So I decided to kind of share that and you want to share a process and how I got through that, my mental attitude and just kind of the, the, what it took for me to regain my life. And that is not as necessarily as impossible as we're told, but yet there is hope even with, in the midst of this darkness, that is a schizophrenia, there was definitely hope.

1 (24m 20s):
And I know, you know, it's so important to, you know, I'm a few years older than you, but I figured, I think it's important for those of us who've gone through the chronic phase. You know, what kind of coming out of the other side, just to share our stories so that the youngsters, the, you know, the who, who just did it with this sort of a, for the first time that our lives, you know, they got something to say, here's someone who's gone through it and they don't feel so alone because the thing about schizophrenia, I think is that if you don't have not part of the community, you can just feel as if you're the only one in the world this is happening to, and that actually makes the symptoms worse because you just find the same thing happening to me.

1 (25m 7s):
But if somebody else, if you had someone else was going through similar stuff, well actually yes. You know, do you know what I mean? And it's a big difference,

2 (25m 17s):
A a hundred percent And, you know what? Isolation is a killer when you feel you're alone. And I had been there when I would say that I was alone. And by myself, I wouldn't talk to anybody about what I was struggling with. And that's the power of the illnesses to keep people isolated. Once your isolated, you know, you don't get help because now you don't trust anybody or you feel so alone that no one would understand you, but we don't want to take the chance because we feel, or how we're going to be treated. Are we going to be looked at, so it still, we don't want to be in that position. So it was kind of, I don't want to empower people to kind of put themselves out there and talk about it, but you need help get help. And the, because when you are alone, when you are isolated, it's, it takes you down a darker, deeper and darker place.

2 (25m 60s):
And it tend to go a spiral just into a, a worst state then coming forward, getting help and kind of don't follow so far. Like the way I did almost, it almost took my life.

1 (26m 13s):
Yeah. Okay. Well, I think I feel that we can wrap it up that would you like to give the name of a YouTube channel? What I'll do is I put a link in the, in the description of there is a podcast. So what would you like to take it to the name of the channel?

2 (26m 29s):
Yes, that's the morning miss nine to nine above schizophrenia. Okay. All right. I just change the name of it. It was a, sorry. It was, it was beyond schizophrenia, but it was raw above and beyond schizophrenia.

1 (26m 44s):
More than I did nine above and beyond schizophrenia. Okay, cool. So what, do you have any particular preference of any music? No, not really. I don't really listen to much music or electronic, you know, that it was, it was real Patrick, too.

0 (27m 6s):
So to speak with you today, Paul <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.