0 (32s):
Well done.

1 (32s):
Welcome to another episode of Interview with a schizophrenic. I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe. And today I have Casey with me from America and Hello Casey how are you doing John King? How are you? Yeah, I'm doing fine. You know, you say are the things the, world's going a bit crazy with this coronavirus, but you know, it is fine. It's okay. Yeah.

2 (1m 1s):
It's a little stressful, you know,

1 (1m 5s):
It kind of get, it is actually 'cause, it's a, it's a big change really. You know, we've got a remember to do some of the activists, X and Y, and we can't do that. We can't live our normal lives, but I think it was kind of good that we can disconnect from a, from our office's or aware of what we normally do that occupies off.

2 (1m 31s):
I think that it's true. I think that Oh what's that? Okay.

1 (1m 37s):
Does it carry on?

2 (1m 40s):
Yeah, I think that is true. I think it may cause a lot of changes in that way because people usually don't sit by themselves very long, you know,

1 (1m 48s):
And say, you know, and so for people who like reading that got time to read books, people can catch up on videos that you want to watch, you know? So I think that that's quite an advantage. Really. It's a good way of looking at it. A man and I, and also nature has got a chance to regenerate to. You never know that there's less pollution, less pollution. Okay. Okay. So lets let's talk about when they talk about your experience is with schizophrenia. So why did you give us a little background? You, you had a couple of diagnosises, you had a quite interesting history, but a military history.

1 (2m 32s):
So why did you tell us about a year?

2 (2m 35s):
Yeah, well, you know, when I was growing up, when I was very young, we had a lot of horses and then I got, after that, I went to a, I got, I got, I kinda made a mistake and got in the school and they were a very, very, very religious and very strict. And it seems like it just kind of made me nuts. You know, I kinda, they, they try to be, they try to reform you and constantly saying, you know, you got to change and they're telling this to everybody and the pressure.

2 (3m 16s):
So when I got out of there, you know, I started, I I've got some friends that were more normal and they, but the problem is all we experimented with with different drugs here and there, not heavy, you know, but I took some LSD and when I took the LSD, you know, I just, wasn't a, I just didn't have enough stability in me to handle it. I had a very bad trip. And after that I got I. I think that's when I started spiraling, spiraling off into a, a mentality that just was making me do all, all kinds of crazy things, you know?

2 (4m 5s):
And yeah.

1 (4m 9s):
So you joined the Navy, is that correct?

2 (4m 12s):
Yeah, I did an, you know, I was like, I was really paranoid and I know

1 (4m 25s):
Diagnosis. You said you want to have the diagnosis before you joined?

2 (4m 30s):
Yeah, that's right. Because, because my family saw that I had a lot of problem. So I went to, we went to the mental health clinic. They said I had schizophrenia and you know what? That was such a shock to me. It was like, wow. I mean, not that was like probably, you know, not, not, not knowing how to handle things that, that label really knocked me for a loop. I think it caused me another 50% of my problems has just that going around and my head, you know, but cause I didn't know how to handle it, you know? And then I, I was a really afraid to get a job and I said, well, you know what, I'm just going to take a plunge.

2 (5m 15s):
I'm gonna, I'm gonna join the Navy and, and just see what happens is, you know, but it was just like really stressful. Ah, you know, I, I learned a few things. I met a lot of people, but I got kind of seen as a loner, you know, just a word, a lot of it

1 (5m 41s):
Is this in the 1980s, 1970s.

2 (5m 46s):
Yeah, that was, yeah, that was actually like 90 or 1981. Yeah.

1 (5m 52s):
It was a different world back then, as well as different world has a different world.

2 (5m 59s):
Yeah. It was different. And I mean, and then the Navy itself is a different world and it's a, it's a very strict and what I needed, you know, a lot of people, they, they, they have kind of a they're, they're kinda just kind of going through life. And then I joined the Navy and it gives them a lot of discipline, but you know, that strictness was just too much for me. I had, I had already been through that and I was still trying to find myself, you know, so it, it kind of, he didn't give me a chance to really figure out who I was. It was kind of stress added on top of stress, you know, and that was it.

2 (6m 43s):
Wasn't a, you know, I really relish getting off work and just going back and laying in my bed, you know, and I was just like, yeah.

1 (6m 52s):
Do you think that, you think, do you think it might have been because of your school that you joined the Navy? You know, it was kind of like, you know, in some sort of a way you were looking for something like that in there, like what happened to your school? Because I know,

2 (7m 8s):
No, I don't think so. I don't think so. I really, I really, you know, the, the, the, the, when I finally left at school, I was so happy to be out. And I said, I never, I never want to go through anything like that again. And I was hoping that, you know, the Navy wood, I could have some of just some, I'm a little bit of freedom to, to get myself together. A little, I thought the discipline might be a little bit Good because I was spending so much time just in my room and not even taking care of myself. So I don't know, I wasn't really looking for it.

2 (7m 47s):
I really needed some therapy, but I, I just kind of just plowed through there. I just feel bad all the time. I really felt anxious, a lot of anxiety and, and paranoia. And I wish that, you know, there's a lot of good people in the Navy, but I just never really connected with anybody or got a very good reputation. It was kind of a tough experience actually, you know?

1 (8m 18s):
Yeah. I could imagine. I mean, you probably quite young at a time, definitely with a severe mental health condition, you kind of need to do things at your own pace. You know, I was telling you some of the times you do this, do that. If it doesn't really work well with schizophrenia, you know, that your condition, it doesn't, it's not compatible. So, I mean, I know exactly what you mean, you know, as schizophrenia find that people need, need to own pace and time, you know? So, so, so what happened after you?

2 (8m 57s):
Well, you know, I, I, I was, I think I kind of, in some ways I might've improved a little bit, but in some ways I might've regressed a little bit and I, they leave me out early and I had to go talk to a, this is very high ranking officer and he was actually a psychologist. And he, he knew within a three minutes of talking to me that I had schizophrenia and he said, well, what do you wanna do? And he goes, do you want to stick around here and try to get better? I said, no, I don't. I don't, I don't think I, I can do it. You know, I said, I like to get out.

2 (9m 37s):
So they leave me out early with a medical discharge. And I kinda, well after that, I mean, I drove off the base and it was like, man, what do I do now? I, yeah. And I, I ended working at Domino's pizza And, you know, that was kind of fun compared to being in the Navy. And I had, I got a little bit of enjoyment out of it, but,

1 (10m 5s):
And I think a drop, like a droplet that can be good, fun, you know, when you're young and you know, it is something you got freedom, you kind of less, less rules, you know, your make your money, you know, you said kind of fun and really do you know what I mean? It's you, you bond with your crew mates, your crew members as well.

2 (10m 31s):
Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Yeah. But you're still in a social environment, you know? So it's still, you still like China figure things out and, you know, it's, it's better than a Navy Yeah the Navy is a, I don't know if there's kind of a, a vibe in the Navy in the military kind of a mean, everyone's trying to act like they're, they're brave soldiers, you know, and it's kind of a, not, not a very healing environment, you know, everyone is kind of molded in the same way.

2 (11m 13s):
So it's, it's kind of like, you don't see different points of view too much. Cause everybody is kind of molded in the same direction and it's, I don't know. It's okay.

1 (11m 23s):
And what she did her, it's a form of brainwashing it in a way, isn't it?

2 (11m 27s):
It is. Yeah. And it may be, it's only not to deep, but it's, it's there, you know, when it's something that was really kind of keeping me from finding my deeper self, you know, and a lot, well, I mean, a lot of people will get out of the military that, that don't, that haven't even seen combat and they have post-traumatic stress disorder. So how does that happen is because the environment it's kind of a natural, I think so.

1 (11m 58s):
Yeah. So, so tell me more about what happened in the eighties and the nineties leading up to go to the present day.

2 (12m 12s):
Yeah. Yeah. You know, I, I had this a, you know, my dad was a horse trainer and I felt like, yeah. And I felt like I wanted to learn how to do that. So I, I was working, I actually started working at the racetrack at the same time that I was working at Domino's and I wanted to learn how to work with the horses, but, you know, the horses are, are, are so natural and they're so, you know, in tune with nature, that, that's why, that's why people like, you know, because they're that kind of bring you back to your natural self, but I was still very paranoid at the racetrack with the people and stuff.

2 (13m 7s):
So it's kind of like everywhere I went there was that stress with people. I never felt, I've just always felt like people were seeing right through me and scene a lot of bad things about me and it just, so I was really struggling, you know, and,

1 (13m 26s):
And he had that feeling of, of, because I can relate to that path, that feeling of decreased as you get older, that, that feeling of vulnerability and the feeling as if you're for podcasting. And it has that feeling of ease off as you called it

2 (13m 44s):
Yeah, you know, at the race track, some something was building up day by day and it got to the point where I couldn't even get out of bed. I was just too stressed. And I said, man, okay. So I applied for disability and I got it. And then I went, I, I moved to this little town way out of town and a, a, a very quiet place. I thought, man, I just gotta get it together. You know? And I, I ended up buying this book and, you know, I had read a lot of books, but it seems like, you know, they are telling you, well, you know, like they said, Oh, well, you should say, this are, you should have this attitude, but it was just, it was just, it was just too deep.

2 (14m 43s):
My problem was much deeper than the books we're going, you know? And yeah. So I, I thought, well, you meditation, that must be it. So I, I try to meditate a lot. I try, I've always tried to do that, but I finally got this book that really took things to a deeper level. And it was, it taught me about the energy in your body, you know? And I started realizing, man, there's a lot of things going on inside you that are, that I wasn't really aware of.

2 (15m 25s):
Like all through your, all through your body, not just in your brain, you know? And when I started looking at the, you know, they column shock Russ, but I don't like that word cause it kind of sounds like shock, you know, but when I looked at the energy centers, I realized some is very wrong, you know, its just not, it's just, it's not clear at all. It's all murky and all messed up. So I started Yeah.

1 (16m 1s):
Yeah. So I, I kind of know what you mean because I would call a about, about 20 years ago I was living in Germany and I went out for my schizophrenia was really bad at the time. And I think my energy and my mind is totally messed up and I was walking at night and there was a matter of if it's dog and the dog started screeching as if he was afraid of me when I was walking past. And I think that because you could send him, my oil was all, you know, my energy signature was on mute.

2 (16m 30s):
Oh that's interesting.

1 (16m 32s):
Yeah. That guy that was really happened in a four because I was like, you know what I mean? I was at least 19 and deleted, no, this is the sort of thing. And yeah, it was all like nine. So I can't hear you.

2 (16m 45s):
Well, that's interesting. Yeah and when you were, when you talk about animals and the interesting thing about them is that, you know, they, they have such a natural shockers that haven't been manipulated through the years. A, you know, the, the, the, you know, animals are like a totally unbrainwashing if you know what I mean? And so it's, Yeah they, they have, and they have a lot of psychic ability that's because it's so, they're so clear on their body. Their body is just like a big TV screen in anything that's going on and they can just see it, you know?

2 (17m 30s):
And to me, that's, to me, that is a direction that people really overlook. It's like getting back to that very natural, original state.

1 (17m 44s):
Yeah. Did any of that state, that's the thing you're talking about? That's a state of high spirituality because yeah, I think so, because it was like a spirit is nature, right? It's not the most, the most spiritual, the most powerful place is nature. Right. Because it is,

2 (18m 7s):
It's not that I Duncan, I think you're really right. And you know what, I think there's a lot of false use of the word spiritual because, you know, I don't know. I don't, I don't, I don't really want to like, what do you call it? I don't really wanna condemn people who go to church. But however, when they say spiritual, what are they really saying? Because you're going there. And are you all, are you really finding yourself or are you getting mixed up with a lot of other energies that aren't really you? So the word spiritual has, there's two different ways of looking at it.

1 (18m 55s):
Why don't you tell me about your book? You write a book about your experiences when you tell me about that.

2 (19m 2s):
Okay. Yeah you know, when it started meditating with the shock Rus, it was, it was helpful, but it was very slow. It was like, you know, you, are you trying to sort out the energy in like one of your shockers? And, but then I, I got to thinking, you know, I, I mean, it helps me a lot. It, that brought me up to a better level, but then it occurred to me that, you know, what, if I'm trying to find my to energy, how am I possibly possibly gonna find that in myself when I've been through all these things, what is really my energy?

2 (19m 49s):
And then I thought, well, what about a, you know, the energy that I had before, or even before I was born, wouldn't that be? So I started trying, and the first time when I tried it, it, it was like a really amazing thing, because this is kind of like, this is a new, this energy that was kind of invisible to me for so many years. It kinda came in and started correcting some things that I never would have been able to see, you know? And it's like, wow, because of what I did is I asked myself what was, what was my energy before I was born?

2 (20m 37s):
I didn't know what was going to happen when I said that. But when I closed my eyes, some, some very deep things started kind of shifting around. And I realized that, you know what? We had so much information in us before we were born that just got stepped on and twisted and, and polluted. And so, you know, and I, I, I, this is like, it's kind of a reset button, but it kinda shows you other things to work on that really got out of whack.

2 (21m 19s):
And it, it, it, it takes, it can take you back your mind, we'll show you things. And if you really think about it in a logical way, you know, when you're really young and you can get a, a lot of energy put into you, that is from your, from your mom or your dad. And the thing is, it's really confusing your system a little bit, because it's not your energy, you know, and your mom and dad could be great people, but their energy is not supposed to be your energy.

2 (22m 0s):
So it kind of sorts that out a little bit. It helps you see Yeah this, this wasn't really what I was thinking. You know, I was, I had certain feelings about this situation, a, you know, thinking way back and, but, you know, my intuition kind of got covered up with this other energy. So kind of, it's kind of a reset button. That's the way I kind of look at it. Duncan yeah.

1 (22m 29s):
Are you worried about this in the, in your book as well? Didn't you? Yes. So this is kind of, what are you talking about? Pre-birth energy. You kind of make me think about reincarnation, which means, which is basically the premise that we existed before we were born.

2 (22m 54s):
Well, well, the thing is, I mean, reincarnation, you know, its like the last, the last five months are, so I really have had to wrestle with the, like what happens to us after we die and stuff like that. And I like, I've kind of just settled on myself just for myself, is that I really don't know, man. It's like, you know, like, well, whatever happens, the animals, okay, that's going to be fine with me because if I say, you know, I'm afraid of where I'm gonna go after I die.

2 (23m 40s):
And then I'm back into the, the realm of the preachers telling what are you, what, what is right for me? Because if we're going to say, yeah, if you don't do this, then you're not going to go to the good place. So therefore you got to listen to what I'm saying. And I just, I know,

1 (23m 59s):
Well, I think, I think you kind of stumbled across the answer yourself when you're talking about the pre-birth energies, that's the same as a post Beth energy, you know what I mean? Your is the same as you say, it's the same thing, man, this is the same thing. So what, when we're living on earth, you know where we are, what matter with this crude matter. But when we, when we die and before we were born pure spirits, you know, and experience it is our, is our true essence, you know? So don't be afraid of anything, man, that would be afraid is just that it's just, if you like the Aborigines as it's called and they say Beth is just growing back home.

1 (24m 47s):
Right. And that's what they have originally say is just kind of at home, you know, the is, which has had four a little while, and then we'll talk about time and then it's not, it's not, it's not complicated and that's all it is, you know? Yeah.

2 (25m 6s):
So yeah. And then, and there's so many, there are so many, you know, we would, if there's so many unknown things, but that's where religion steps in and says, yeah, we know the answer, but I mean, come on, man, you may come on. I mean, that's why And, you know, the, another thing just kind of interesting is that, and this is like the other half of my book is that when we're, when we're a given a name, when we're born that name, there are some, everybody is going to be totally different in this way because the name can put you not by the time we get out of a high school, we've signed our name on paper 10,000 times, 10,000 times.

2 (26m 0s):
So what the name? And I asked, sometimes I ask people this, I say, what's the difference between your name and saying an affirmation and a, if you, if your name is like Trump, Donald Trump, that's like an affirmation to your brain. And when you were growing up, you said you seen that 10,000 times for yourself, you formed like something in your brain that the other student next to you is not going to have. That he's going to have a totally different thing that may take him in a totally different direction. So if you have a lot of, if you have a lot of problems and you want to get back to a very neutral, you got to look at your name and say, what it is, this, what has this done?

2 (26m 49s):
That my brain has. It has it kind of complicated things and made me think in a certain pattern to keep getting in the same situation over and over again, because your name keeps doing this thing. It's not giving, it's not giving me a chance to stop and say, Hey, what am I really doing? You know, like, you know what I'm saying?

1 (27m 13s):
Yeah. I think it might take a slightly different. But I think when you're young, you get conditioned into this whole mental pattern and in turn into a habitual behavior, which is you're conditioned to tell you, because the way you personality is I'm way in a way people dominate your, and when you grow older, you can stay into that. Mental state is habitual. Parents is very difficult to breakout off, you know? So it comes, you know, even if, even if like a depressed person won the lottery, that they would probably stay depressed because the same Yeah too, that mindset of being Germain that day we'll just get drilled alcoholics.

1 (27m 57s):
You know what I mean? That's just trembling as a player coach or a casino because they would be so trapped in that mindset. Do you know what it means? But if, if, if, if something changes in your life, you've got to change your mindset as well. You've got to, you got to say, no, I know I used to pick like this, but this has changed now. So I wanna, I want to progress. So I want to go to the next level. Yeah,

2 (28m 21s):
Yeah, yeah. And if, if, if, if you, if you like an animal, you would look at yourself and say, well, this is crazy. This is crazy. What I'm doing is not helping my survival. It's not helping me get along with people, but I just keep thinking in the same way. But the thing about an animal, if you have an animal, Metalli, you're probably not going to get super rich. Like some of these people are because some of these people's names have made them compulsive in making money, making deals, making money. But you know what? I, I I've met a lot of these people and they're still looking fine trying to figure out how to be happy.

2 (29m 8s):
And so there's, there's a Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I mean, there's so, I mean, so there's, there's a balance, you know, but yeah, they're just, they're trapped in a way of thinking and the happiness isn't there, the money is there, but the happiness isn't there because I'd give it a lot. I give a lot of people rides in a taxi because I, I drive a taxi now and I've driven some ultra rich. And sometimes they, they sense that I'm kind of an open person that will listen to them.

2 (29m 52s):
And some of them have told me they're just not happy. And that's like, I, I feel bad for them. I still, I mean, not, not that I'm better than them, but it just seems really strange, you know? And it's like, you don't know what to say to them. I would, this was before I wrote my book, I met this one guy. He makes, he started a company. He makes a $30 million a year and he told me, he's just not happy. He, he, you just bought a, or he just bought a, a sum, a Ferrari, or, you know, I think a Ferrari and, and he and his, his kids are, are embarrassed when he comes up to this school.

2 (30m 39s):
So he's got all these, you know, Yeah, he's just, and I told him, I said, at that time, I didn't know what else to tell him. And I said, Oh, well, man, you just got to be like a kid again. And

1 (30m 56s):
Not that that's actually right. Except that you actually write, I agree with you. I'm, you know, happy when, when we're in your home, my children as much easier to happy, you know, it doesn't mean when you're out, what are you going to add to? It is more difficult to be happy. It's more like a bit like an advanced subject when you are, when you're a kid, it comes naturally, you know, but by having that child, like the thing you want, you want your child, you are grateful for such a small things, you know, and having that as an adult, does it make you happy? It definitely, you know, I'm not just an appreciating what you have appreciating, you know, when I was a kid or used to love the adverb, sometime the vision, you know, I'm not, you know, everybody hates Yardbirds.

1 (31m 44s):
Right. But when you're a kid and when you're a kid or you go after it to the best of you, man,

2 (31m 52s):
Right? Yeah. And any time you feel that everything is stale and there is no wonder in the world, then something's gone wrong. You know, a lot of people that are like that. And, and, and then, but I was think like, what are you, what if I was at, like, I was picking up, ah, this guy at the hotel, in a taxi. And we were pulling out and he had his family and there was a rolls Royce parked there. And he said, Oh, well, you could you be given rides in one of those some day? And I told him, I S I turned to him and I said, I'm just like a dog.

2 (32m 35s):
It doesn't matter what, what car I'm in. I'm still happy that he gave me like a $15 tip because he never had that perspective, you know?

1 (32m 53s):
Okay. Okay. Casey, let's, let's wrap it up here. Tell me what's, what's the name of your book? I would compare it a link in the description. So people got in touch with you for you if they want to read that.

2 (33m 5s):
Yeah, it will. You know, I I've changed the title several times. I've rewritten it 10 times. And, but if someone goes on my email or send them the book, it just it's 20 pages and they can read it. But I think my favorite title that I had was psychic world.

1 (33m 27s):
Yep. That's a good title. Yeah. That's a good time. Hi, ma'am thank you very much. It'll be a great honor. If you will, if you would like to come back, you know, may be next year or later, later this year for another show and we could have another chat.

2 (33m 43s):
Well, Jonathan, I hope we get a lot of people connected because you know, it's like we got to get rid of the stigma and it's just people trying to find themselves. So they shouldn't be put down any, any more than anyone else. And, you know, you know,

1 (34m 8s):
I figured out, I think, I think it was just getting away from that fear. People, people find it scary when you talk about schizophrenia, you know, I spell it for us as well, but like normal people, they don't like, it it's like a scale. And I think that if we can show, there were just normal people that were struggling with something, you know, and there was a beautiful site for it. You know, they might not be assigned to it as well, but, but it's all about, you know, it's just, it's just a real human experience. Are we a, we would like, we would like to talk about it more that, you know, because you know, it's a large part of our lives. Okay.

1 (34m 48s):
Duncan man. I appreciate what you're doing, Matt. Thank you very much, Casey. Thank you.

0 (36m 1s):
<inaudible>.