0 (31s):
Hello. And welcome to another episode today. I would like to welcome Jack from Dublin. He is 22 years old and he was diagnosed with psychosis last year. Welcome to the show with Jack. Hi, how are you going to be fine? They're not too bad. You know, keep on working on it. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So tell me, Chuck How I'm tell me about the last year when you were diagnosed. What was the events leading up to that?

1 (1m 7s):
Well, basically I worked for a full two years and I was shocked. I assume that I was doing well and that I didn't really have much guidance. It's like side by side of that go over and travel to Australia. Cause most of my family lived over there. So I would have a family in England at a time in Australia. And I went over hoping to go for a few years and I went, I stayed in, in hostels and Morelos there. I know it was just had to get more paranoid. It's hard to think about what life will be like back at home in Ireland and how things would work and stuff. So I started to develop a paranoia and I left it on checked. I met a few people and there are, and there are those, but there I could tell they had a few screws loose.

1 (1m 51s):
Well anyways, okay. I went back home and I started to have real paranoia and I'd I'd I'd I wouldn't really talk to a lot of people. It was very socially, you know, an outcast. So I tried the go work, but I couldn't really walk anymore because it was so I was, I was sold like iffy in and then I was leaving work and you know, not really talk to anyone. So I went to the doctors and they asked a few questions. What happened was I actually froze one day. I couldn't move. I tired. I could move. I was stuck and I was stuck. It was like frozen. And they said, bring me to the hospital. So I went to the hospital, how I got evaluated by psycho it's like <inaudible> then he said to me, Yeah, he's asked me to be hearing the voices.

1 (2m 37s):
I said to me, I've heard voices Yeah but mostly, and like mostly friendly voice is like mostly like, I, I would hear like Connor McGregor up yet, you know him from the UFC so that I would hear him. He had like some names when I was like going for a run or something. And then you put me on olanzapine for a milligram and yeah, I was on that for four weeks. And then I started to get really tired on the lines of pain. And I decided Dan, that I'm going to come off of it after a while for Landsman know. Yeah. So, and then after that was, I couldn't hold the job after that, I'd be working in a walk and by just leave a job.

1 (3m 22s):
And I started to notice that I would get these shakes more in my legs or start to shake it. And then I developed, I don't know of you ever heard of that? It's like an easier where you can stop moving. Yes,

0 (3m 35s):
Yes. Yeah. It's horrible. It's horrible. I also take her lot of it is, you know, the drug kind of helps with the psychosis, the side of side effects on my mat. And like you said, you become drowsy. A lot of people put on weights, you know it's but you can, you kind of, you know, so yeah. So you try what, so what medication are you taking him out?

1 (4m 13s):
So basically what happened was I was on medication for a long time on that. They started to guest psychosis then, and I was, every time I had walked by a car, I would look in the car and they think art is something in there that's coming for me and coming after me. And I just, I eventually went, will know you and I actually spoke to a bit of a whiz and they stayed up for the whole night. And that next morning I went to the doctor's and he said to me, I think you have to go to the hospital. And I went to the hospital for about two or three months and I was on their lands, opin there. And it was, I took him in an injection they're as well as for me, what happened was in a hospital. I got severe TZ, like really bad.

1 (4m 56s):
I couldn't sit down from more than two minutes. I'd be constantly standing up, walk in and then come back and forth.

0 (5m 4s):
Do you mean that is that's horrible because I, I I've experienced, stopped for about one year myself. And I remember when we go to the cinema, you know, it's like a four, I kind of got to get out of house. So I'll go to a cinema. It absolutely is horrible. I mean, that's for sure.

1 (5m 31s):
Did they give, they give me for about two or three weeks. I got like a lithium, you know, similar to a Xanax. Okay.

0 (5m 40s):
Okay. I'll let you stabilize it. Yeah

1 (5m 43s):
But it didn't stop the academia. It only made me relax. And what happened to me was because I was getting such a bad, like a teaser, my mind started racing and then I couldn't I and that led to more psychosis. So I would, I would have it be having a psychotic episode because I couldn't relax my body. So what happened was the doctor I put me in there and actually retired like a bond after a month after she, she pushed me in there. So all, it was kind of a leak. I was a bit upset because I knew it would have got out earlier if there was a different doctor of Vme, but obviously I can't, there's a whole ending cancer, but it kinda, it kind of, kind of got to me a little bit, you know what I mean?

0 (6m 24s):
Okay.

1 (6m 24s):
Yeah. So yeah, go ahead and go home. So I, I, I was on the, I was on the land is a pain. I took an objection for that. So I took 400 milligrams. You actually remember it was though. And then I can talk to the lens of paying for about maybe four weeks after I came out at the hospital. And then that's when stuff went bad for me, like I had insomnia, like Duncan, it was like, I couldn't sleep. Or per se for about seven weeks before 7:00 AM, like, it was horrible. It was really bad. Like

0 (6m 53s):
When was that all for you stopped taking your lines of pain. 'cause what it is, is what their lines of pain makes you sleep. And when you stop taking it, you can't sleep. You

1 (7m 7s):
Know what I mean? That's the a hundred percent of it's like the opposite,

0 (7m 10s):
The opposite effect. It is just a nightmare. So you can't, you can't sleep and this is horrible. So, yeah. So, you know, tell me, tell me, tell me more about what was going on.

1 (7m 24s):
So basically I got a sheet when I was in the hospital that night, so it was a very long Shiva, 12 pages long or something. And it's, and the first thing he said was like, you've got a site, an acute psychosis or something like from induced by cannibus and this stuff. So I was looking through if I had, honestly, I just, I just burst into tears because it could not actually read the rest of it. 'cause it was so upset. And to me, you know, that that's obviously what happened to me, but yeah. So for my whole stay in the hospital, basically I was, I was getting open sitting down and I couldn't, I couldn't, I couldn't relax for the whole time. And yeah, it was, it, it was, it, it was really bad a lot.

1 (8m 7s):
I was really suicidal to be honest, and we'd want to go down that aisle. I lost a bit of weight, but I said, I lost all the muscles. So it used to it. We used to train and a lot used to exercise a lot and there I lost, I lost nearly all the muscle. So I'll have to start from the start, but basically, yeah, I went to a new doctor there recently and she said to me, she's she has the heat mentioned and like Payless me and stuff. I'm telling them like, you know, I didn't really want to take, take a book for me, olanzapine and I would have ran to take on something else, but I don't think that lands. I think that in order and the psychotic kind of woulda made me relax,

0 (8m 43s):
You know, I mean, it's like a allows the pain I take on olanzapine purely because like already get a rest of the spilling with it. And yeah, well actually my, my doctor won't allow me to change your medication. Anyway, you tell you kind of what kind of a restricted by what the dr. Will do. You know, we don't get that much choice in it. So, I mean, I know I, I said before is if a human is a, it's a horrible affair.

0 (9m 25s):
So even now,

1 (9m 27s):
Right now, I'm in LA right now, honestly, I'm in like a depressive milled, but I've honestly been in there that I've, that I've been in a depressive mood for awhile. Like even when I came back from Australia, I was definitely depressed. You know, it was, I don't know what, like, but even from a kid, like I go on a night out, I'm the co I kind of develop a paranoia because I was in a few fights and a few times he got beat up and stuff on there, we call it and it kind of made him a bit paranoid. Cause a lot of it's like a lot of people would like to threaten me and stuff. So I know it's not like some of the, like some of that I am bit delusional, you know, it's just every, like from a kid I just bullied as well. So yeah.

1 (10m 7s):
So right now I'm right now I'm feeling are able, I just want it to be able to, to go back to work for sadly, I don't know when I'll be able to come back to work, you know?

0 (10m 20s):
Yeah. I mean, you're still very young and you're, you have a 22. So you know the thing about mental illness, psychosis, you know, you do go through the ups and downs sometimes, you know, you, you know, sometimes if you could maybe a TAC life and you could do really well, and this, this is my last for about 12 months, 18 months, then you might relax a little bit and then you might need to rest a little bit and then you could go again, you know, it's, it's, you've really got to be careful, but you could be, you can be kind of work again for sure.

0 (11m 2s):
You know, I said, I spent seven years on benefits and sometimes you need to do that to spend time of benefits. But you know, most, most people are the benefits that we would like to work. And that's something that would just fall off because it's just, the situation is just too bad for them, you know? And, and also you get trapped in depending on the job, right. Or, you know, if you try to look for work, you feel they might penalize you and you could lose your benefits. So it was just kind of be abreast on your personal circumstances and you know, so yeah.

0 (11m 46s):
Bombing. Yeah. I mean, yeah. So tell me, tell me more, let me, let me ask you some questions of my left is questions. What about your friends? How would your friends react to you? So this is happening to you.

1 (12m 2s):
A lot of them, you know, they're very noises me and stuff, but the thing is I can't make that connection anymore. Like, I don't feel like I'm able to be, be friends with anyone. Like, I don't feel a connection when you want any anymore. I feel like I'm like a moot point. You know, they're obviously noise. Your family is known and stuff, but yeah.

0 (12m 22s):
So like, you know, the of that treat me well, but you know, that's a good mind because you know, the support from your family and friends is very important. So what was the hospital like? Cause people like me to the mental health world is like, so what do you tell us about why the hell it was like,

1 (12m 52s):
I see, I don't know I had a negative experience, but I don't want to tell people that I've had a negative experience really, because I'm, you know, a lot of people will need to go in, but I definitely, for sure I need it to go in for a few weeks. I got, I literally taught that like the IRA in Ireland let's talk. They were like, they're coming after me. You thought they were going to kill me and stuff. I went to the police station and I was asking the police to rest. That goes to complete. I was completely gone in the head like, well, you know, after the other two weeks of being in the hospital, it felt good. But you know, it, I just think I'm like one in a million where I had bad, a side effect of, of the drugs. So, you know, but I think it's called like for two weeks it was grateful.

1 (13m 33s):
It's really hard if you're in it for a longer than for that length out at the same point, you don't have to be in, like, you can go up to, you can go into the hospital on like, as a voluntary patient and you don't actually have to stay for that long. Like they can agree with you at that time. You were saying, you know,

0 (13m 52s):
Yeah, I know. I mean, you know that I was in August. So about 20 minutes that are now with the medical team will discuss this customer. And you know, for me, like when I, when I got there about six weeks, something like that, I, I would, I always want to cite what often that is when I got back.

1 (14m 24s):
Yeah. So you actually escaped. I was with my mom one day and I was the one that like, I can't explain to you, it might help. Like for me the activities you like, its already talked about. Like they don't want to hear it. Not to mention the firm for me may my mean that drove me crazy because I was so like me in a rest, this, this was so much fun. I got an opportunity to roll with. And it just, when I went to town and I went to about four miles, I just walked into a form on his plan to sleep in, in one of the, in one the parts I didn't want to get back to the hospital and much like, but eventually I had decided to go back cause the park was locked. Yeah. It's hard for me. 'cause like constantly walk around for me is what gets to me because I can't, when I go into work, I can't stay on the same place.

1 (15m 11s):
It's hard for me. It was just a fidget around the like, you know,

0 (15m 17s):
If you would see a, now

1 (15m 19s):
That they get a witch, why are you saying, how did you, how would you say that? Keith Kizzy yeah. Yeah. Well, I think it's pronounced. I don't know. I'm actually got, I've got a doctor's appointment on tourists. They put, the thing was, I've always wanted to work as a kid. Like my friends are jobs. I really want it to work on the wall for two years, I had six grand and I taught I've taught me. He had the gun, I'm the best now. And I had all this and he had that loaf would be great and I'll be easy, but you know, it was already easy to find and it gets harder.

1 (16m 1s):
So my main objective now is to leave your parent's house and hopefully get money with benefits to be able to move out because I like Ireland, but I don't really like how the medical system is an Ireland, you know, it's just kind of, they're just there just kind of autonomic. You don't really think it's it's as good as other. Country's like, you know, my family is in Australia and I can tell from there, like all the facilities are great and stuff like in the hospital I went to, there was not like there's no metal, metal detectors or anything. Like just walk in and be like, anybody could just bring anything in here, you know? And it actually happened. So a lot, I actually brought some like a bra it's rogues in free for loads of people when they go kick that off to the hospital. Cause they talk to the drugs and that's not a problem.

1 (16m 41s):
A lot like a doctor tried Italia are they ask me the first time I'm talking drugs and I'd tried to tell them that I would just need terribly because from like, this is from trauma or as a kid, but they want to ask you questions that could have taken drugs if you were doing this and that were, you know, it didn't really find the relevant to now. I don't think is rogue. You took seven months ago and have that much of an impact. Like, you know,

0 (17m 4s):
The, the, the thing about drugs, drugs is like, it's like, it, it doesn't help, but it's not, I don't think I like taking it. It's like the only reason that you become a psychotic, I, my personal opinion is that psychosis is kind of ready to trauma triggered by trauma. And also I think you probably need to be predisposed. So you know this position for it. So if you got a predisposition, you are going through trauma, spoke in a little bit of a weed, then you might get psychosis.

1 (17m 41s):
That's what happened to me. And I just, yeah, I just smoked it one night and I started having delusions. I had, I did have delusions and then, you know, but it was never, I never had aggressive delusions and I never wanted to hurt somebody or never want to hurt myself. I guess when they ask me like, I have you been suicidal? I said Yeah, but I wasn't really suicidal. You know, I had had caught him with a boy. No, it never actually do something like that. But you know, I had a, <inaudible> so bad where I'd walk up to the mountains. There's melons in Dublin. And like every, like twice a week, mine I'd walk like 10 miles. Cause I couldn't sit still. And even now you have it where like a go to bed when you meet with my feet and legs are still moving around, you know, a bit shakes and stuff like that.

0 (18m 30s):
Okay.

1 (18m 30s):
Okay. Yeah. I know I've had that format. That's a lithium. Yeah. I tried that school when they won't give it to me because I've already taken it.

0 (18m 37s):
It's not there for you to buy it dies. It was a benzo it's a lot. Yeah.

1 (18m 42s):
Yeah. It seems like I had that in my tray and yeah, I had it for a while, but he said to me, they can't put on me because of the withdrawals are so bad. But then I'm trying to say it to them, the withdrawals from my dad, these are even worse. Like, you know,

0 (18m 60s):
Yeah. It's fucked up because you know, you know, people don't talk about this, do that, but you don't, you know, nobody could eat, it really speaks about it. You know? There are so many of them,

1 (19m 9s):
How many support groups for people in like the have like problems with our, you know, the goats or whatever, or they've got like asthma or something like this. Everything is great. You've got that Lake boat. You never hear about someone that's, you know, a big mess in your head, like on a, a hundred a trauma. Cause nobody wants to mention it.

0 (19m 28s):
Have you gone on the pacer as, or any centers they said to us like a lot like a drop-in or like, you know, the mind charity, mind they do.

1 (19m 41s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Cause one in town and they see me, they say, come in for a cup of tea. So, you know, I wouldn't mind, I wouldn't mind going in. And one of the, one of the really good and bad things in the hospital is that like, there was a lot of people they're like, you wouldn't think it would be in there or like a lot or just regular people coming in and had a bad time, you know?

0 (19m 58s):
Yeah. Effects, you know, become severely, mentally ill. And you know, some people will throw it on the family to me or something, but it's like, it's kind of a physical, because it's got to have a physical, it's like the Jami and it's just, it's just, it's kind of frustrated. And the lack of, not that he knows that we can't talk about it. So I see a Well so

1 (20m 40s):
My phone is just about to die. It was only a 1%. Okay.

0 (20m 42s):
Well, good. Well, we'll get into VMI. I'm going to be to help you with your boss. I'm going to play some music for you. And some, some, some all would be, or some people like music. Okay, cool. Thanks for speaking with me. Jack we will do it a little much. I mean, you could, and you can ask me on Facebook, if you want to do that, we'll have a video. We'll have it. We'll have it as a messenger chat on the, on the phone,

2 (21m 16s):
You know, a longer journey.