Duncan (32s):
Welcome to another episode of interview with a schizophrenic. I'm your host Duncan Samarasinghe and today I have the great pleasure of having Sam with me. Sam is from the UK, he is 25 years old and he has been diagnosed with psychosis. So welcome Sam. How are you doing today?

Sam (53s):
I am good. Thank you. Thanks for asking.

Duncan (55s):
Yeah, that's fine. So Sam what I'll ask you is how are you coping with the COVID crisis? How's that going?

Sam (1m 5s):
I don't think it is particularly affected me as much as it would compare to like the average person, to be honest. I generally spent a lot of the time at home alone. I occasionally see a family, but largely it, it hasn't really affected me too much.

Duncan (1m 20s):
Yeah. You know, that's kind of, I think as you know, for a lot of people with psychosis and schizophrenia, you know, they are at home, so it's kind of like, well, this is just the same as my normal life sort of thing. So, you know, whereas other people there is a big change, I think for them.

Sam (1m 38s):
Yeah. I think a lot of people have been struggling this year. That's fair to say. Absolutely.

Duncan (1m 43s):
Yeah. Okay. So, so let me ask you about the first question I want to ask you, which I always ask every person is if you like to tell me how your mental health journey began, what were your first symptoms? How were you diagnosed? How was your treatment if you would like to talk about it that would be absolutely fantastic.

Sam (2m 1s):
Okay. So it kind of began, but before I was even aware of at the time, really, so I was anxious from probably about 17 onwards. So about eight years ago now. And it will kind of, I think it tied up with a little bit of my mild anxiety, which we see is exaggerated with my use of cannabis. So I'm, I'm not sure quite how the cannabis has affected me, but I do believe it potentially exaggerated my problems mentally. And then at the age of about 21, 22, I started to decline quite rapidly.

Sam (2m 42s):
I went into a state of the things, I had an episode of psychosis. Umm, I kind of felt like I had very little control of myself and I started to get impulses. What else? I'm just trying to think of. It's quite a while ago that I've kind of, it all started, but

Duncan (3m 2s):
So when, where are you involved in the, in the, in the health care system? Did you, were you're an outpatient, were you're in a hospital or were you treated, or did it not go that far?

Sam (3m 16s):
We went into a hospital for about two nights was when it really started to hit me that I was experiencing something which just wasn't normal basically. And then from there I was put into the early intervention team in what's the HSA. So in the UK middle of the UK and I had one, but I think my experience with my first area was quite poor to be honest. So I had a very good CPN, but my psychiatrist, I know I never actually saw my psychiatrist except for one occasion. I had some Okay treatment from a psychologist who gave me a, a bit of a rundown of just how it sort of deal with intrusive thoughts.

Sam (3m 58s):
And from there I kind of was left. I felt very much the almost kind of left and neglected a little bit after my first situation with, with the early intervention team, I was kind of left and then I went to work. So I was treated in workshop and, and, and basically in between those two occasions, I had had my first episode of psychosis and things happen, which I'd rather not go into it. A load of the detail about the, the particulars about what happened. Cause it's quite sensitive, but things got very difficult and I actually got a little bit violent with someone which was quite quite bad.

Duncan (4m 39s):
And so, but if he, if you like to tell me, when you say, when you saw your psychiatrist, obviously psychiatrist, what I do is they dispense medication. So where are you satisfied? Because if your psychiatrist with, with the medication, correct for you,

Sam (4m 57s):
It's taken me a while to get the right medication. So I was on our PIP resolve, which made me very agitated. And then I switched to Respiradone fairly recently. I've been on it for about three months now. I don't really suffer many side effects, so it's taken a while to get here. But yeah, it it's, it's been, it's been a bit difficult because some of the medications I've not reacted to very well. I just haven't really had a, a good experience of medication as a whole. I haven't really found many benefits from the tablets that I've taken. Like I've taken antidepressants, antianxiety is anti-psychotics and none of them have really benefited me at all.

Sam (5m 38s):
I've never really noticed a positive from them or if I'm honest, my experience in medication hasn't been very good.

Duncan (5m 43s):
And the early intervention team, where are you satisfied with them? How, how would I, how effective was that a treatment?

Sam (5m 50s):
So when I was in watch the show, wasn't, I'd say it was generally dissatisfied I'm with the treatment. So like I said, I didn't really see my psychiatrist very much. I didn't see my psychologist as much as they probably are one to two and a CPM was a very good, but she was, she felt overworked. It felt like she was overworked and she really didn't have enough mental capacity and myself to be able to deal with what was going on. Ever since I've come over to work this year has been a very difficult, a very different story. I'd assume a psychiatrist quite regularly or up until obviously COVID and now it's a telephone calls and I I'm I'm I'm talking about going into therapy at the minute is we have a psychologist. So just to see how things are going to help, medication has gradually got better.

Sam (6m 33s):
So I think it has been very difficult, but like I said before, we've come to some ways, which is a bit better, so, yeah.

Duncan (6m 40s):
Okay. And how do you feel? Are you, how did you feel at the moment? Are you positive? Did you feel that I can get over there? So what did you feel? This might be a long-term thing. I mean, what was your feet? What are your opinions? Because the medication, yeah, it helps, but it's not, it's not a cure or is it, so what, what, what are your feelings now about it? That sort of thing.

Sam (7m 3s):
So I think I'm coming to terms with the fact that I honestly don't think I'm going to fully recover from psychosis. I think I get certain symptoms, which never, I never find any relief from them. So I'd get chest pain, which is consistent, which is a liar, I think is a symptom of anxiety. So now the psychotic side of things, more of the anxiety side to things and although my psychotic thought, so my intrusive thoughts have cleared up a lot, quite a lot, actually, ever since I've been in the spirit, I still do get them. And I've never really found that there's been a lot of a trend upwards, if you know what I mean, I've never really gradually got better and I've always sort of had a good few months, had a bad for a few months, that kind of thing.

Sam (7m 46s):
So,

Duncan (7m 47s):
So you mentioned therapy because I think my personal opinion, I think something like a therapeutic approach is going to be quite a bit, is going to be quite useful.

Sam (7m 58s):
Yeah. So they are talking to put in me in so a psychology and to see if that can help to, to try and tackle. I'm not sure how it's going to quite work because I've only had a little bit of psychology here and there before. So I had some CBT I've heard of different types of therapy that I never even knew existed ever since I've been on a farm on the internet. So I'm hoping that something that can give me a different approach to how I'm feeling right now. So it might challenge some of the thoughts or feelings that I'm having. And maybe I can find some relief, but like I said, I'm generally coming to terms with the fact that I don't think I'm going to get fully better. I, I'm not sure whether I'll be able to get back into work again, I'd be in our work for about a year or so about a year now.

Sam (8m 42s):
So I'm just, I'm still thinking about what's, what's going to happen on a stage. It sounds quite down and quite, not very optimistic, but I I've been an optimist optimistic quite a long time and I feel that my optimism has been, yeah, sorry, but that's fine.

Duncan (8m 57s):
You know, I'm with mental illness, you do go through ups and downs. Yeah. And you know, I, I was at worked for seven years, you know, and a lot of people, if you kind of go through some rough periods, so yeah. But it was a light at the end of the tunnel. Tell me what, what is your profession? Sam

Sam (9m 22s):
We used to work in finance and I've worked in call centers. So I had done administration and call center work largely.

Duncan (9m 29s):
And you won't get any twenty-five so you're still get pretty much just starting out in your career. Do you feel, I mean, what I would say to you as just given like, like a, some advice from my experience is that perhaps you've got some time to think about when you might like to do, maybe you might want to do, if you, if you don't feel ready to go back to your previous career, you might want to think about possibly other things you might be able to do, you know, something, something, you know, because that's the most of the glaze of different things that you can do that might be suited to you better go to jail to me.

Duncan (10m 15s):
Okay.

Sam (10m 15s):
Yeah. So that's been one of my struggles I think, is always finding my place in like the, the grant, the grant, the thing of society and finding my place in her career. And socially I've never really found a place socially all in their career. So it would be, it's given me lots of time to think about things and to talk to people and to experience different things, to see if there is a passion that I have, if there's something that I can get sets in, because I think if I found something that was truly interested in, I think I probably would use that as an opportunity to get better, I think. Yeah.

Duncan (10m 48s):
Yeah. You know, how did you have you, do you go to a knee, like a drop-in centers or, you know, did he do or are you part of the mental health community in your local area?

Sam (11m 3s):
Not so much. No, I don't really know much about it to be honest. The first thing that I did that had been a little bit different as I've gone onto this forum and have started speaking to people and sharing ideas and trying to give people a little boost and stuff like that and make people feel a little bit better, but I haven't really been part of any sort of groups, mental health group. So anything like that before. So something to look into

Duncan (11m 27s):
Is that there is something to look into it because, you know, in mind the charity mined, they often have drop in centers in local and local areas. When you can go and have a cup of tea and chat to have a service users and they have, they will obviously they will put on activities. And also that might be a day center in your local area as well. You might give us get referrals from your GP. You know, that might be something that you be able to do, that there are those sorts of thing. And another thing which is by the NHS is called the recovery college.

Duncan (12m 11s):
So the recovery college that, I mean as bound to be what is a workshop where, where the NHS put on courses to help you, help you with your covery. So they'll be courses to give you insight into your condition. That would be courses on a medication that will be courses on, on workplace, you know, how to get back into employment. So, you know, I would definitely look into, into the VAT and see if there's anything in your local area, which you might help you. Because, because I do know is that like we talked about a forum and the form is fantastic.

Duncan (12m 57s):
I think before I joined that for my, for me, I was kind of a low, I felt alone In in terms of my mental health struggles. But when I, when I found out that people are experiencing similar stuff and it made me feel so much better. So, you know, all, all the facts are blending into the community, you know, integrating into the community is so important, I think, for, for your recovery. Okay.

Sam (13m 24s):
Yeah, it is definitely been a night then looking at the forum and, and seeing how other people and, and let, the first time I remember truly connecting with someone was with a, a walking group that we do with a walkthrough in HS, early intervention and mixed teams. And I felt that I'd, I'd finally found someone that shares some of the struggles that I have, and it was very new to me. So it was very different. So it will be good to me to continue that maybe are looking into some community groups and stuff like that to attend.

Duncan (13m 57s):
Yeah. I mean, you know, I think that's all, it just helps people that you have people that are sort of like my age who've, who've gone through to Germany, you know, everybody's journey is different, but I, at least you will have some sort of role models you say, okay, these people they've, they've gone through mental health journey and they have come out to the other side. I like to think that that's very helpful because, because I think one problem with the mental health community is the lack of role models, you know, I think, but, you know, we will, we'll just human beings and, you know, at the end of the day, we're we, we want to have a normal life.

Duncan (14m 40s):
I think so. Yeah. So I think that's an important, okay. So let me, and one of the things that will take about a cannabis. Yeah. I think you're right. I think the cannabis by itself, I don't think it causes mental illness, but I think it can speed up the onset. It can encourage the onset, you know, it it's like an extra trigger, you know what I think,

Sam (15m 6s):
I think it is, it's at least a complication, in my opinion, like it's, whenever you meet with the psychiatrist, then you are trying to pinpoint what happens for you to feel a certain way cannabis gets in the way. And it always, was it the cannabis or was it certain events within my life that have triggered this? And so I think it's definitely a complication

Duncan (15m 25s):
Is a complication. This is not, it's not the sole reason, but it definitely helps us probably. Yeah, absolutely. So why, okay. You want to talk what I want to ask you, which might be quite helpful, the How, what is it, what does it feel like when you, when you guys saw, when you went psychotic, how does it feel like for you, you know, what was, what was that experience like? It

Sam (15m 53s):
So quite normal, uhm, in a way it just felt like I was full of emotion. I had always making the decisions, so it wouldn't usually make it. So I was felt like I was quite impulsive and it felt like however much I would try to stop myself for doing something. I can stop it. It was something I would continue to do anyway. So in that sense, it's quite an impulse, the impulse of uncontrollable sort of emotion that I felt. So it felt quite difficult. It was, it felt normal at the time, but now it, I realized it, it was quite a difficult time for me.

Duncan (16m 37s):
Okay. Fine okay. Let me say, ah, how did your, how did your friends react to you becoming ale? You know, did you, what are they supportive or were they are sort of afraid and then, you know, how do you understand this? You know, tell me about that sort of thing. Okay.

Sam (16m 59s):
Do to what I think was maybe like a mini episode of psychosis. I lost my friends. They no longer sort of support me. I don't think they understand my condition at all. Are there other things that I had in an awareness of mental health, but to be fair to them, I didn't have an awareness of mental health until I was about 20. So I didn't really have any awareness of mental health problems until I hit about 20. So yeah, my friends, they, they parted ways. We kind of left each other. It wasn't a terrible dramatic ending, but it was definitely a, a mutual decision sort of to, to leave each other. So I didn't really get support from a friendship group and fortunately, okay.

Duncan (17m 38s):
You know, I think it was quite hard when your, in your twenties, you know, people can be quite, they can have a lot, you know, like, especially men could have a lot of bravado and mental health problems, you know, it, it, it makes people go public or make him feel uncomfortable, which is, you know, it's ignorance because it affects so many people and it is a major issue and it's a real issue that affects people like you and me quite severely. Yes. But unfortunately you, you know, you're, you know, you're not alone with that experience. And how about, how about your family with your family more supportive?

Sam (18m 21s):
Well, my family has been absolutely amazing to be honest, I'm as difficult as I have been with them. They've supported me no matter what has happened. I couldn't be like, I think I'm extremely lucky with the family that I have. I hear in situations of people who are going through a mental health struggles and they are, and they're still not being supported and recognized as a, as, as a vulnerable adult or a vulnerable person in families. So for my parents to continue to support me and be there for me and just to help out and so on to talk to him, even after what's happened, it has been fantastic. And like I said, I, I couldn't be happier with my family and my family has been absolutely amazing.

Sam (19m 4s):
Okay.

Duncan (19m 5s):
Okay. That's good. I'm gonna ask you, have you, have you ever experience, you know, I mean the last couple of beers, when you've been going for this, these experience, mental health experiences, have you experienced any discrimination?

Sam (19m 26s):
I've had a lot of ignorance. I think I felt a lot of ignorance from people, but I wouldn't, I can call it discrimination people generally just not spending a minute to try and understand someone or just being ignorant to mental health problems as a whole being kind of selfish almost 'cause they're they're Well they're Fine. I just think the people that are healthy, they should just take, just taking a few seconds to try and understand someone that isn't as healthy as them. But I, I, yeah, I haven't really, I don't think I've had a discrimination as such. There was a, a time at work where my mental health to become a parent. So when, sorry, when I was going for a job on my own mental health became a parent and they couldn't recruit me anymore, but because of other reasons as well, so I wouldn't really consider it discrimination, but it was, that was a bit of a complicated time as well.

Duncan (20m 17s):
How did you feel my mental health is portrayed in the media, like in the news? So, you know, I can, in the public knew the, the national media in a commercial media, how did you feel it's portrayed? I mean,

Sam (20m 32s):
Absolutely terribly. I think I'm in the film industry, especially if you're schizophrenia, a circus raid has been crazy maniacs, dangerous people that shouldn't be involved with at all. I think the news it's a very, very, to pick on anyone in a mental health community that, that, that nurse is myelin or his aggressive or negative. But my understanding is that people that are psychotic and unwell are generally more likely to harm themselves than they are to others. And that's something that I did discover on the internet as well as a fact. Sorry, but yeah, there's a whole, I just think may not have people who have mental health problems or misrepresented in the media, just because I'm obviously the media is so keen to get attention and views and, and, and to, and to get people watching their programs, et cetera, that, that they generally go for the shock effect that they want people to be shocked because it gets more viewed.

Sam (21m 27s):
So I, I don't really, don't like the way that we are portrayed and the media to be on this, especially the film industry. And I really don't like some of the films that come out and talk about and, and show how people are psychotic and violent and dangerous. It's pretty, pretty disgusting. I think that might be a word and it makes it difficult to trust. Like society is a whole,

Duncan (21m 48s):
You know what I mean? It's kind of popular media. It's kind of, it's screwed up anyway. So if you're like most, a lot, so many films involve SIM severe crimes and we're supposed to celebrate that. Like, you know, it's like the, the second week people get killed on Belman, you know, like all of this, you know, I'm, I'm talking about like the, the plot where people, you see, there's so much violence from television and films, you know, and, you know, we are supposed to be normal citizen. That's what, that's what we digest, you know? And so it's kind of, it's kind of a fucked up to a site, isn't it?

Sam (22m 23s):
Okay. Yeah. It's, it's pretty horrible for anyone that has a severe condition to be able to talk to people, engage with people. And just because of the, the film and the media industries, like even like on social networks, like Facebook and other social networks, like, you know, it was people say as soon as they sat this at a depressed or people joke about being, having severe anxiety. And I think it also stems from the media So because the media was so ignorant and noxious, we have how they represent people who have mental health problems. And I think people kind of take that and they're equally as ignorant in the end. I'm not sure it's about it, that they don't really, truly, you understand that people are having a really hard time sometimes and some people really hard time.

Sam (23m 7s):
So a lot of the time. So I think it's kind of, it's not pleasant to, to witness some of what goes on in the media and what goes on with even friends and a social media. So it's not nice.

Duncan (23m 20s):
Okay. So I think, I think that we can wrap it up here. What I want to ask you, what is your I? Why don't we do is I play some music at the end of the show. So what is your, your favorite preferred type of music or for a job? Well, I can say

Sam (23m 38s):
At the moment I'm listening to like, I like hip hop, rap I'm and I like, like all sorts of electronic as well. So

0 (23m 47s):
Those are my favorites. Okay. It was actually purchased talking to a few, you know, I hope that you are optimistic again and you do will cover up to a sense when you start getting your life back. And I think that's so important and, you know, so, yeah. So thank you very much for talking with me, Sam. Thank you for having me.

0 (24m 11s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>.