1 (31s):
Hello and welcome to another episode of interview <inaudible> with me is under 21. He lives in Nova Scotia, Canada, and he has a diagnosis of psychosis and RS, which I believe stands for the otherwise specified. Alright, so welcome, John, how you doing today?

2 (58s):
I'm doing good, man. How are you doing?

1 (60s):
Yeah, I'm doing pretty good as well, actually. Yeah. I've had a few days off holidays, so just been chilling out.

2 (1m 6s):
Sweet. Yeah.

1 (1m 10s):
Okay. So let's just die then with it. I told him why won't you do is give me a history of your mental health journey, how it began, what were your first symptoms? You know, what you, what, what happened for you to get, to see a doctor antidepressant medication? What was your best leading up to that? Please tell me about it.

2 (1m 31s):
Yeah, man. So basically what was happening is I was studying at the university of Toronto for jazz, just studies. I was in my third year. I did a couple of years at another university, but I switched for my third year and it was going really good, man. I was really enjoying it. I was meeting lots of cool people and I just started to, I just started to slip and I remember starting to smoke weed every day. And I think that was my downfall.

2 (2m 12s):
I know I had a little bit of like, I was a little bit of a hypochondriac before in my life, but I never really had symptoms of schizophrenia. I never had depression. I never had hallucinations or delusions. I was always a pretty like a neuro-typical. So it started, I think in December. And I remember coming home or actually right before coming home to Nova Scotia for Christmas break. I remember thinking Apple was listening to me. Okay.

2 (2m 53s):
I remember looking at my phone one day and feeling a click in my eyes. And that was kind of indication that there was magnets being put in my eyes for the first time. And these magnets were to control me from Apple's point of view.

1 (3m 18s):
How'd that make you feel?

2 (3m 20s):
And dude, it's crazy. Cause like I looked back and I was, I, it never really like, it never really thought, I never really thought that it was anything out of the ordinary because I was kind of questioning Apple before this. And I had Apple on my mind and I was thinking that they were very empower. And for some reason it just didn't even cross my mind that it was like a symptom. So, and that was the problem with my psychosis. So I started getting a little bit paranoid and I started going to the art gallery of Ontario a lot.

2 (4m 3s):
And I remember looking at these paintings and just hearing like up to symphonies in my head. And it was like such a euphoric blissful experience. And I loved it, man. It was, it was, it was, and I would smoke weed always before just to get me like a little bit more creative and I would take audio recordings and saying, and I would write, I would write tunes based off what I've seen in these paintings could, they would give me like a holistic perspective on how to write a composition.

2 (4m 43s):
So that was like a positive point in my life.

1 (4m 47s):
Oh yeah, definitely. That's I mean, to me, that's kind of like your musical inspiration. Got it.

2 (4m 53s):
Definitely. But I know at that period, it may not have been a normal thing to experience because I was also experiencing some paranoia and I thought that Apple was listening to me and I thought that Netflix was modern day news. So yeah, man. So I, I kept on telling my friends like, yo like I think the second coming of Christ is about to happen and they would look at me and they were like, all right, man. I'm like, how do you get this perspective? And I was like, well, if you look at Netflix shows such as Messiah and you, you can tell they're based around universal love.

2 (5m 40s):
And I was just spinning all this like crazy theories.

1 (5m 45s):
You know, people do believe that the, you know, that the second coming of Christ is coming because why would I make that program? Yeah, they made program because they were tapping into something, you know, do you know what I mean?

2 (6m 1s):
Exactly. But for my mind it was, it was not healthy material because I, I, I started, okay. So I just to, to take a note on that, I even told my girlfriend at the time that I, I, I thought that the second coming of Christ was happening and she was put on this earth to save me from the second coming of Christ. Because I believe that if you had a partner at the time, then you would get through the second coming of Christ without being judged. And she believed me. She was like, yeah, you're right.

2 (6m 44s):
She was like, my mom thinks that I was like, yeah, it's crazy. So no one really, no one, no one got me help. And I really wish they did because my psychosis started getting very dark. I started isolating. I started pushing my friends away. I started pushing my family away. I, my girlfriend broke up with me because I was being crazy. And because I was forcing her to get apps like sync tuition, because I believe that aliens were running this app in order to control us for the alien war, like things were getting out of hand.

2 (7m 26s):
And so I, I, all of a sudden believe that I was being recruited by the Illuminati. And I, I believe that kids, my age to like young adults, my age were also getting recruited by the Illuminati to kill rapists and murderers because I, I got this idea from the show, the end of the fucking world and the show of you and the show Messiah. I don't know if you're familiar with those.

1 (8m 2s):
Yeah. I mean, I've, I haven't watched them. I haven't watched any of them. I think I sort of first bought the Messiah by like he, the guy is so good looking, right. It's such a cliche, you know, come on. I mean, they could be a bit more, I don't want to look cliche. It's giving me something real world. You know what I wanted

2 (8m 25s):
For my mind, I was, I was consuming anything and I wasn't taking like an analytical look, look at it. I was taking more of like a, a realistic look. So it was a little different for me. But anyways, I got in an altercation and I barged into my neighbors, my neighbors apartment. And I tried to stab them or really I try. Yeah. Because I believe that my family was going to die of Corona if I didn't do this. And I believe that I was going to never achieve my dreams as a musician, if I didn't do this.

2 (9m 5s):
And it was actually when I was, I was in the middle of it, it felt like my body was being possessed. And it was really intense, man. And I fucking, I feel so bad for the guy that I, I did that too. And he's all right. Thank, thank God. But I actually,

1 (9m 24s):
After that, did you actually cause them harm?

2 (9m 27s):
I did. Yeah. Oh, wow. Yeah. So he pinned me on the ground after I got him a couple of times and he actually w in the scuffle, he cut my finger and I have a cut tendon and I have a big scar on my finger, but that's about it. And so I, I got pinned on the ground and then there was hollering. So people called the police and they took me to jail. And yeah, man jail was like pretty crazy. Cause I started hallucinating. Like even more like I was in my cell, like saying like mommy, mommy, mommy, because I was repenting for my, my mother's sins.

2 (10m 14s):
And I was looking at the dirt specks on the ground and those dirty,

1 (10m 19s):
This is classic. When I say classic, I mean, this is psychosis when you're, when you talk about this, it's like from the beginning, it's getting worse, more intense, you know? Yeah. Psychosis, man, this is what she's is untreated untreated psychosis. Exactly.

2 (10m 39s):
And like I was smoking like multiple times a day and that week, I mean, yeah,

1 (10m 45s):
It's psychoactive, that's the thing with T THC is psychoactive. So it, I think it doesn't, it doesn't if you're, if you're going through psychosis, it's probably just going to make it worse. I reckon.

2 (10m 59s):
Yeah. That's what the doctors say. They say it was either a drug induced psychosis or schizophrenia, like amplified by weed or it was just like delusional disorder. I don't think it was delusional disorder, but yeah, I don't, they don't really know what it was, but,

1 (11m 21s):
So, so when you were in jail, did they give them, talked with the doctors?

2 (11m 27s):
Yeah. About a week went by and they got me into a psych ward and well, actually before that I went to prison, not just jail and there, I, I was like very out of it. I was looking floors. I was like, like beyond, beyond repair, you know, if it was induced by the wave, then it was, it was too far gone and yeah. So I, I eventually got to a psych ward and I didn't believe them.

2 (12m 11s):
They were like, have you ever heard of mental illness? I was like, Oh yeah, there's schizophrenia. There's bipolar. There's delusional disorder. There's, you know, depression D did, you know, like, and I just had no insight. And I, and I was listening to this alien in my head. Cause when I, I would actually ask this alien in my head that was once the Illuminati, that was once my girlfriend and I would ask them questions and my head would respond with like a nod or a nod downwards or not to the side. And I w I wouldn't move it. It was just like, it was a, a physical response to my question and I wouldn't even have anything to do with it.

2 (12m 54s):
So anyways, they put me on Invega, Invega Sustenna. Yep. And then they sent me back to prison for like another month. And that was hard. That was a hard experience.

1 (13m 8s):
So was that proper prison or psychiatric or

2 (13m 13s):
It was proper prison. Wow. Yeah, man. It was in a mental health unit. So I was, I was there with people that also had mental health struggles and I met some very bizarre people. And one, I met one friend that was really kind to me and I forget his name because I was so out of it at the time, but yeah, I'll never forget him. He was there for stealing a poppy box. Okay. But he was an addict, so that's why it was there.

2 (13m 54s):
But he also had this problem with his digestive system. So he was in the mental health unit, but yeah. So then after a month I got out and

1 (14m 9s):
They release you or was it like a transfer to community care or something like that?

2 (14m 13s):
No, I, I, they released me to my mother as a sh she was assured and yeah. So I've been here at my mother's house for a year and things have recently got better, but men things have been tough. Let me tell you, like, I got a lot on my plate when it comes to the legal stuff. I feel bad for what I did, but also know that it wasn't me, that did it. I was always like a caring, empathetic, like no harm type person. I know that it was just totally out of my character, but this drug that I'm on, damn dude, it like, it kind of took away everything that I love.

2 (15m 4s):
And I kind of wanted to make like a little segment of this interview about the drug.

1 (15m 13s):
I mean, so the drug I've heard of that before, is it an anti-psychotic or is a mood stabilizer? I'm not sure.

2 (15m 19s):
It's both, it's a, both in the anti-psychotic and a mood stabilizer.

1 (15m 26s):
I mean, these medications are very powerful. Yeah. They, you know, they're very powerful and, and they have, they have side effects, you know? Yeah. Please tell me about your experiences on this medication.

2 (15m 41s):
Sure. So the first one that is really hard to deal with is the depression. And at first I thought it was post psychosis, depression, which I did have, which I couldn't even leave my bed. It was so bad for months, but that finally got better. And then I started having this other depression that was just lingering. That's really hard. And it actually finally got cured by taking St John's wart, which I know you're not really supposed to use, but it's helping me. So

1 (16m 18s):
It's,

2 (16m 18s):
It's just a supplement. Yeah. Yeah. And then the second one is the complete emotional numbing, which is like, I'm sure

1 (16m 33s):
It's quite serious, isn't it?

2 (16m 35s):
I'm sure you're very aware of it. Yeah. It's super serious. It's like Anna Donia right. It's it like, I can, I can put on my favorite record, my favorite record by my favorite artists and not feel an absolute thing, like nothing. And it makes me feel just like, Oh, what's, what's the point. Right? Like what's, I don't, you know, it makes, it made me a while ago. Very suicidal. Not anymore, but yeah. And then the other thing is the sexual side effects. I like, I couldn't have sex if I wanted to, which is tough, but also the least of my problems, because then there's the cognitive issues where my coordination is completely off.

2 (17m 31s):
Like I used to be able to play piano and do two rhythms at one time. And it's completely off in my fine motor skills. I used to play very fast on the guitar because that's what I went to university for. But now I can't play fast on the guitar and I'm like sloppy. And also my internal is completely turned off. It used to be a clicking in my head. And I used to be able to hear music too, in my head, even before my psychosis started. And now I can't, I have poverty of thought. So those are the main ones,

1 (18m 7s):
You know, something, it sounds to me as if your, your natural naturally gifted with music and the psychosis, the medication is probably your worry thinking, well, it's fucked up now, right? Yeah. So I would say you just got to give it time because, because you probably find that it, it can inspire you to maybe do something special, you know? So I would just give it time it, but yeah. I just want you to carry on with what you're saying anyway.

2 (18m 43s):
Well, the thing is, man, like I told my doctor all this and I tell them from, I told them for months, like I can't live this way. I can't live this way. Like, you know, it's, I think it's the medication. I think it's the medication. And they said, okay, well fine. We're going to switch you to Abilify. And I've talked to over like 50 people that have been on Abilify and over 20 people that have made the switch from Invega to Abilify and they all say, Oh my God, it's, you know, it's, it's miles better. It's, you know, you're, you're going to be able to, you know, maybe not get to complete baseline, but it's going to be much better than Invega and all already, my, my depression is, is cured.

2 (19m 26s):
I'm five months off of Invega Trinza. Yeah. And I'm on Abilify 200 milligrams, which is a fairly low dose. So yeah. Yeah, man, good things to come. It's just, it's been a year of suffering.

1 (19m 43s):
So how has your, your, your kind of your musical ability now with Abilify, can you play the piano? Can you get the metronome in your head? How is that all now?

2 (19m 56s):
Well, the thing is, man, it takes around, it takes around a year to a year and a half, four Invega Trinza to get out of the system. And it's only been five months. So maybe, you know, a couple of years down the road, if you're still doing the interview, I can come back and I can say, Oh my God, you know, my skills are back. Right. But right now it's, it's still kind of in the dark and what I have up. So good.

1 (20m 28s):
Yes. Just, it's just what I'm saying. It's like, I mean, the thing is, it's got to give it time. It's basically what you're doing, isn't it, it's basically what you're doing. That's what I'm doing. So yeah. So,

2 (20m 43s):
And I'm trying to enjoy like, you know, the small things in life, you know, watching an episode of a Netflix, the office I'm watching right now,

1 (20m 53s):
What is, what has happened? I, are you going to go back to university when you'll do

2 (20m 58s):
Hell? Yeah. Oh yeah. I'm not going to let this stop me. And you know, if I I'm going to be one of those cases, I feel that if I get symptoms, then I'm going to have to learn how to live with them and be on somewhat of a low dose. So that the medication that isn't,

1 (21m 20s):
You can definitely do that.

2 (21m 22s):
Yeah. It's an option. Right. So

1 (21m 25s):
Definitely. I mean, when I was like 24, 25, when I first got ill, but I kind of carried on working for like, for like 10 years before I took a break, especially when you're in your twenties, I think, I think you can still do it. You know, I think you can, you can still go out there and do what you want to do. And I mean, I had crazy experiences, but I think you can kind of cope, you know, you can kind of just, you can cope with it and still you can still get by. And while you're doing that, you're building up your experience in whatever you're doing.

1 (22m 7s):
You know, you're building up your life skills, you know, I just spent, yeah, I know people just stopped working, but I just, I just think it's such value and just keep giving it, especially when you're young, it's such a volume, just keep caring, you know?

2 (22m 23s):
Yeah. I'm taking a break right now and I, because I,

1 (22m 29s):
Right now isn't that part of it, right. Everyone's

2 (22m 31s):
Taking a break. It's the best time for this to happen to me, to be honest. But once I get some, well, honestly, once this ACA Stesha, or I don't even know if it's ACA seizure or if it's hypertension, because whenever I stand up, I get this extreme restlessness that I have to pace. But when I'm sitting down, it's like, my blood pressure is fine and I don't get restless, but it's impossible to work a job where I have to stand up because of this. And they said that once the Invega is out of my system, this will go. But so once that goes, I'm getting back to work.

2 (23m 12s):
I'm going to be like a pizza delivery guy or something, even if I can't play music at the time. And once I get some motivation back, because I hear people on the Abilify, I get a lot of motivation compared to Invega. I'm going to start, I will, I've already done it, but I've, I've started, I've started writing compositions on FL studios. It's a music producing program. And basically you can have like a mini piano and, and you can alter the rhythms. You can alter the chord progressions, you can alter the melodies. So I'm trying to write like classical style pieces.

2 (23m 52s):
And then eventually I want to write the mode. I'll all in music notation, give them to a band and play. And I've also been writing raps. You know, they're, they're, they're all right.

1 (24m 10s):
I mean, you know, that's, that's, that's what you want to do. I mean, in terms of you, there's a lot more to this world than just, you know, what we, what we hear and see usually, you know, it's like psychosis gives us a little bit of a, you know, it's like a crack, it's like a crack where it was, say, say somebody like, like a clairvoyant, they have like a gift and they can see, they use like a telescope where psychosis, it's like a crack in the world and we kind of see for it and it kind of affects us, you know, it's kind of like a damage, but we still, we still get affected by the other side rule, you know, the that's the mysterious side.

1 (24m 57s):
Right. So that's kind of, that's kind of interesting because I think that can also give you inspiration definitely in music it's probative. Right. So it can give you inspiration.

2 (25m 11s):
Yeah. Sometimes I wish that this is probably a very, not unpopular wish, but sometimes I wish that I was in like a third world country. And like someone saw me as a shaman and not just like a person with psychosis, you know?

1 (25m 33s):
Yeah. I mean, so yeah, so other cultures used to take psychosis differently. They would see it as a gift and they would see it as, as communicating with spirit, but in, in the Western world. So in Canada, America, UK, Europe, where a lot more material and we're a lot more rigid in our thinking. So we don't kind of accept that side of life.

2 (26m 4s):
We have a lot of media that is really dangerous for a person with psychosis as well. And the way we're raised is a bit dangerous for a person with psychosis, where people in third world countries that are more connected to the earth, more connected to family, I don't think they would have the problem of saying, Oh, Netflix is third world. You know, not third world, sorry, modern day news, but they do have religion. And I can see how religion would be a bit of a dangerous place for someone with psychosis in a third world country.

2 (26m 47s):
But also, you know, you see people chained up to trees, you know, that are mentally ill.

1 (26m 55s):
Yeah. So I suppose,

2 (26m 60s):
Yeah.

1 (26m 60s):
Identity the day. I mean, you've got to do with what you've got. So you've got your life in Nova Scotia. You've got your, your family and your friends there. So you've got to make most of what you've got. And then, you know, I mean, but it's interesting the way different cultures do treat psychosis for sure. I mean, because it's kind of, nobody really understands it. There's, you know, there's, nobody's got close to curing it. Right. It's by the medication they found by chance that it dampens down the symptoms, but it's not a cure. Right. So, you know, it's just, it's just kind of like, well, yeah, regulates the dope from the, in the brain, which they think is responsible for psychotic activity, but that's pretty much it that's pretty much all they know.

1 (27m 54s):
Right.

2 (27m 55s):
Yeah. I'm really excited to see where medication goes because they have, they have new medications that aren't even targeting dopamine and they're targeting different areas in the brain that aren't, that don't have like a, as much side effects. And even like the, do you see the nose spray that they came out with? It's, it's not, it's not out yet, but it's this university that put it out and trial that, and it's just going to wait to get to the market, but it's a nose spray and a psychotic. So instead of ingesting it by pill and having to go through all the metabolic side effects, it just goes straight to the brain.

2 (28m 40s):
So there's no weight gain. There's no, there's no metabolic side effects you haven't,

1 (28m 46s):
That's pretty interesting by, it's pretty interesting actually. Yeah. I'll send you the link. I'll have to look it up. Yeah, I will. Okay, cool. Okay, John. Well, I think we kind of got to the end of the show. I think what I want to ask you, is there anything else you want to talk about? If you've got a couple of minutes, you can.

2 (29m 10s):
Hm, Man. I just want to stress like how hard some people got it. You know, like I got hired because in Vegas, a tough drug to be on, but I know people that are on a much higher dose of Invega than, than, than me and plus other medications and, you know, medication does have the side effects sometimes that can kind of zombify you and, you know, take away your quality of life. And I just want to note how hard that is and for any of the people that are struggling like that, I'm sorry.

2 (29m 57s):
And hopefully someday we get better medications and you know, for severe schizophrenia.

1 (30m 5s):
Yeah. Yeah. You're absolutely right. You know, we, there's such a bad press about schizophrenia and these conditions is that. And that would be, you know, I just want to get it out there that people do. Like you say, people do suffer with just the medication, let alone the symptoms, you know,

2 (30m 28s):
Sometimes. And I don't really even know what that's like, because I had more mania type symptoms, but I can't imagine being paranoid and on medication. I just can't imagine. And people go through that. Right. So it's, it's, you know, they say it's cancer of the mind and you know, it's definitely up there with chemo treatment. It's it's, it's, it can be, it can be heard. So

1 (30m 54s):
It's definitely hard, but you know, there's that side to it, that mystical side to it, it's a different life experience that you have. So we gotta, we gotta look on the bright side and you can still have a normal, when I say normal life, you can still achieve what you want to achieve. You know, it's just, it's a slightly different, that's all.

2 (31m 21s):
Yeah, man. I, you know, one thing I'm really excited for is if I do have schizophrenia, which they say, Oh, Kyle, you know, I don't think you, you do have a lifelong illness, but if I do, then I'm excited to, you know, have a bounce and experience my illness, you know, head on and with the help of medication and, you know, see that side of life because I haven't experienced that side of life for a year. And when I was experiencing and you know, like, I didn't know I was experiencing it. So that's something I'm looking forward to. But yeah, I think that's all I got to say.

1 (32m 3s):
Okay, John, so what I want to ask you is tell me your preferred drawn of music.

2 (32m 10s):
Well, I've been listening to lots of WC and instruments, but you know what man put on some jeans,

1 (32m 18s):
Jasmine, and I just, I just want to say, thank you for talking with me, sharing your story. You know, it, it takes, it takes a lot of courage to do that because you know, it's really helpful. The other people out there <inaudible>

0 (32m 44s):
Yeah, no worries.

0 (32m 45s):
<inaudible>.